The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, accounts and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Jacarandafm.com becomes a digital powerhouse  Jacaranda FM was South Africa’s most visited radio station website in 2019, with over a million unique users visiting the station’s website every month. Statistics from Narratiive show a year-on-year-year growth of
196% (October 2018 – October
2019. Month-on-month growth for the period between January and October 2019 comes in at an amazing 192%. The website recorded more than 31 million-page views since the
beginning of January. Programme Manager Hennie Myburgh said Jacaranda FM’s multimedia
approach has enabled the station to engage with different
audiences on different platforms on a consistent basis. “We
are consistently looking for new ways to engage on a variety of topics that we
know the audience love. This phenomenal growth is testament to great content
driven by world-class personalities. Content from Breakfast with Martin Bester has been accessed over a million
times this year on our Audio on Demand platform alone,” he said. Jacaranda FM’s online success can be attributed to its efforts to
ensure consistent synergy between its on-air and digital platforms. Online
content promoted on Breakfast with Martin Bester and The Scenic Drive
with Rian scored some of the highest pageviews, beating a few of the
biggest news stories covered this year – proof that on-air has a crucial role
to play in digital growth. People moves Charles Beiles retires from ABC After
being at the helm of the ABC for the past 15+ years, Charles Beiles has decided
to retire with effect from 31 December 2019. Rickey
Gounder, the Audit Bureau of Circulations’ senior auditor, will be relocating
to Johannesburg, and will take over from him. “It
has been a privilege and a pleasure to lead the ABC under the direction of the
Board, and I am sure that Rickey will ably continue with the task of taking the
organization forward,” said Beiles. “I wish him and the organisation all the
success in the future.” Sue Napier appointed MD of advertising for Wunderman Thompson Wunderman Thompson, formerly Wunderman SA, has
appointed Sue Napier as managing director of the advertising division of the
Wunderman Thompson Group in South Africa. This national role includes the
management and overseeing of the 200 team members across the Johannesburg, Cape
Town and Durban offices. Haydn Townsend, Group CEO of the agency, approached
Napier to further establish Wunderman Thompson as a formidable, creative brand
and communications advertising agency, that is focused and driven to deliver
novel business solutions for its clients. Although a journalist by qualification, Napier
recognised her calling to work in advertising more than 20 years ago. “I am
living my dream. I’m excited about working for a global agency and look forward
to being exposed to the thinking and the talented people who work within it. I
truly believe Wunderman Thompson is the agency of the future. Fulfilling a
national role and looking after multiple regional offices is the next step in
my career. It makes my heart beat faster; in a good way!” she said. Culture, Napier believes, is the life-blood of an
agency. She is an advocate for fostering healthy internal agency
cultures to encourage better performance and collaboration. Business moves Primedia Broadcasting partners
with AI company Primedia Broadcasting has partnered with global AI company, Veritone Inc, to demonstrate the impact of radio advertising on online activity at scale.Select clients will have access to Veritone Attribute to help them better understand how their radio media spend helps build their brand and business, and how to make their campaigns more effective. Veritone Attribute demonstrates the return of radio investment in terms of online activity and engagement, and is the first of a series of tools being rolled out by Primedia Broadcasting to effectively measure return on investment (ROI). For the full story, click here. Microsoft to partner with Seedstars Summit Africa Seedstars, the emerging market startup community and investor, has joined forces with Microsoft on the African continent once again. With the support of the multinational technology giant, the 5th Seedstars Summit Africa will be held in Johannesburg on 3-5 December. Concluding the 2019 Seedstars World Competition for the African region, the Summit will showcase more than 23 of the most promising startups from Africa who will pitch in front of investors and industry experts. “Innovation is the birthright of every human being. We are excited to partner with Seedstars as they continue to transform and empower startups all over Africa,” said Chris Lwanga, senior director of Software Partnerships at Microsoft. “At Microsoft, we believe in empowering every person and organisation to do more – and start-ups play a big role in this.” The event will take place at The Fox Junction and gather over 300 key stakeholders from over 25 countries in a three-day journey that will conclude with the main stage conference, where the major technology and innovation trends of the region will be showcased and thoughtfully discussed. This year, a particular spotlight will be put on female entrepreneurship. Avatar
and Yoco partner to encourage everyone to #ShopTheStreets Yoco have appointed Avatar PR to execute
the consumer-facing element of their national summer campaign after a blitz of
a chemistry session, brief, pitch, applause and now execution. “We asked agencies to deliver a big idea
that will meet big KPIs and Avatar PR stepped up to the plate,” said Yudhvir
Ranchod, Yoco brand marketing manager, “#ShopTheStreets is about supporting
small businesses by encouraging everyone to shop with them this season. We
really want the public to understand the positive impact of shopping small.” Group MD of Avatar Veli Ngubane said,
“Yoco are entrepreneurial, we are entrepreneurial and this campaign is about
growing the economy from the grassroots up. It’s a perfect storm.” Martech
Marine appoints Boomtown Boomtown has been
appointed by Mertech Marine to create a professional brand strategy for its
subsidiary business, Mertech Cable and Wire. Working across the corporate identity, Boomtown has
created a new brand architecture for the company that included updated
contemporary photography, website development, and an e-brochure. The objective
was to develop a clear brand narrative and communication directive for the
business’ key audiences. Mertech Marine recovers and recycles redundant
telecommunications cables from the seabed, and with Mertech Cable and Wire
manufactures a wide range of high-quality steel cables and wire products –
providing a full end-to-end solution that complements the Mertech Group’s zero
to landfill vision. New category
introduced for The Radio Awards 2020 The Radio Awards has launched a new
category for the tenth iteration of the annual event, the Station Manager’s
Choice award. “Innovation and inclusivity are what make The Radio
Awards a respected, relevant fixture on the industry’s calendar,” said Taryn
Westoby, head of events for Arena Holdings. “We’ve been guided by The Radio
Awards’ new advisory board, key industry stakeholders, and active input from
the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB). We’re excited to deliver on
their recommendations.” The aim is recognise those individuals – the unsung
heroes – who have previously not had the opportunity to be acknowledged for
their contributions in previous years of The Radio Awards. Anyone who
works behind the scenes is eligible, Westoby said. For more, click
here. Cape Town developers first
African developers with game on Apple Arcade Launched in September 2019, Apple Arcade is Apple’s video
game subscription service for iOS, iPadOS, tvOS, and macOS devices. At launch,
the platform had just over 100 exclusive titles, including Cricket Through the Ages, created by Cape
Town developers, Free Lives.All the games on Arcade are free to
subscribers and can be played offline. Cricket Through the Ages is a single button physics game, which
combines major milestones in human history, cricket, and a wild sense of humour
that is the hallmark of all Free Lives games. “Few South Africans are able to afford the upfront capital required to get game projects off the ground, and most studios have to take contract or service work to sustain themselves. That takes time and energy away from the process of developing original titles,” said Free Lives founder Evan Greenwood. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.