The Media Online’s weekly round up of moves in media. This week’s BIG move: PRC, BRC and Kantar TNS have mutually agreed to cease production of the
Establishment Survey from the end of December 2019 The Publisher Research Council (PRC), the
Broadcast Research Council (BRC) and TNS have announced that after three years
of providing high quality Establishment Survey insights to the media industry,
they have mutually agreed to cease production of the survey from the end of
December 2019. “The PRC, BRC and TNS decision to cease
production of the ES data is mutual and our parting amicable, in order to
enable the BRC and PRC to future proof the study to better meet the needs of
the media and marketing industry, engage with industry players towards
standardisation across all studies and explore the possibility of a joint
survey that will holistically meet the needs of all key stakeholders,” the
parties said in a statement. The last deliverable will be made available to
the industry in March 2020 for the last half year results for 2019. This
decision comes following a review of the shifting media and marketing research
landscape in South Africa and the need for greater collaboration across all
bodies. The PRC, BRC and TNS partners are proud of the
part that the Establishment Survey has played in modernising the South African
media industries’ data. The introduction of the new Socio-Economic Measure, SEM
2018, developed by Neil Higgs and team, was an industry leading initiative on
accurately measuring socio-economic indicators in South Africa. Representatives from the PRC and BRC complimented
TNS on the work done in replacing LSMs, the entrenched but outdated population
segmentation model, with SEMs, which accurately reflect the real economic
consumer landscape in terms of numbers as well as ethnic and geographic
make-up. People
moves Moagi Bodibe joins Wunderman Thompson as chief
strategy officer Wunderman Thompson, formerly known as Wunderman SA,
has appointed Moagi Bodibe as its chief strategy officer. “Wunderman
Thompson is the largest digital agency globally, and while digital
transformation is all the rage in business these days, it has always been at
the core of what Wunderman Thompson offers. The agency has continuously evolved
its capabilities in response to a changing world, one that requires ongoing
innovation. It’s wonderful to be part of this team with a distinct culture of
progression. There’s a real sense that we’re building something amazing,”
Bodibe said. “In his role,” added Unati Moalusi, the agency’s
chief people officer, “Bodibe is responsible for the agency’s 20-person
department who work with the various business units sifting through the data
and information, making sense of it and inspiring creatives and technologists
to create experiences that engage with and excite audiences and users. The team
operates across traditional ATL, digital and social media communication and
marketing. They also work alongside the data and insights specialists who
measure the impact of the various digital and social media marketing
interventions.” Bodibe comes from a media and journalism background
before working in strategic marketing and brand consulting. Kevin Ndinguri appointed managing director at UM Full service media
agency UM has strengthened its local leadership team by appointing Kevin
Ndinguri as managing director. With a decade of media strategy and digital
experience as his base, the last year of which has been spent at UM Africa as
client managing partner, Ndinguri seamlessly moves into his new role with the
full support of his colleagues and clients. Having worked on brands across the spectrum
including SA Tourism, Nedbank, Johnson & Johnson, Investec, Pernod Ricard,
Blackberry, Renault, Spotify and Emirates, Ndinguri is skilled at switching
focuses between categories and is the consummate client guy. Business moves Edgars re-engineers its in-store customer journey
by partnering with Moving Tactics Edgars has appointed Moving Tactics as its
holistic in-store digital signage and media partner as it launches its new
‘open experience’ retail concept, as revealed at its recent flagship store opening at Fourways Mall in
Johannesburg. The digital signage solutions company had previously worked with
Edgars, and their associated clothing and cosmetics brands, prior to the
relaunch, to implement in-store digital media experiences for its customers. Edgars relaunched its brand in 2018 and is
committed to providing customers with an experiential shopping environment. The concept of creating entertainment through
shopping and socialising is enhanced and supported by Moving Tactics’ digital
signage installation that includes point-of-sale signage, pillar screens, touch
screen kiosks, convergence area screens, in-store music and large-impact
staggered video walls that accompany the customer on their journey through the
store. “As part
of the Customer Audio and Visual Journey, we are also testing various
interactive digital solution such as Digital Mannequins to allow customers to
visualise the current fashion trends and Kids Digital Gaming tables in the Kids
department to keep them entertained during shopping expeditions,” said Kevin
Bierman, head of digital signage solutions at Moving Tactics. Daily Maverick launches
an online pop-up bookshop to support Scorpio investigative unit The
Daily Maverick has launched Ten Books – a new online pop-up bookshop. “At
Daily Maverick, we like to jump head-first into – well, just about everything,
and so it has proved with our new e-commerce shop. Introducing Ten Books,
an online pop-up bookshop founded in support of Scorpio, Daily Maverick’s
investigative journalism unit,” the company said. “Funds
from your purchases at Ten Books go directly to Scorpio. Now you can get a good
read and join the fight against corruption at the same time, by buying
bestselling books from us. The
first pop-up will run until Tuesday 26 November. Weber
Shandwick Africa wraps up a successful year with Level 1 B-BBEE accreditation Weber Shandwick Africa has wrapped up a successful
year with Level 1 B-BBEE accreditation. Using the power of analytics, social media and
storytelling to engage audiences across Africa thoughtfully and with impact,
the consultancy has achieved several key milestones in 2019. Along with winning the Africa Sabre Award for
Crisis and Issue management for its work on the Cape Town Water Emergency, Weber Shandwick Africa also bagged an
EMEA Sabre for Crisis management, to honour its stellar Cape Town Water Emergency: From Crisis to Opportunity for South
African Tourism. In addition, the consultancy has also grown its fledgling
office in Kenya into a respected business in the region, servicing clients such
as Mastercard, Copia, IBM, GSMA and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. All great achievements, but the one CEO Jill
Hamilton is most proud of is the agency’s Level 1 B-BBEE accreditation.
“In the past year, Weber Shandwick Africa moved from a Level 2 EME
contributor to a Level 1 B-BBEE Contributor, achieving 135% B-BBEE recognition
level. Today, the consultancy is 53.22% black-owned and 46.66% black-women
owned. It’s a milestone we are exceedingly proud of,” she said. Joburg’s favourite bakery, Fournos, appoints
Tribeca Public Relations Fournos has appointed Tribeca
Public Relations (Tribeca) to support its efforts in raising
awareness for the brand’s full product offering, which includes its
award-winning bakery, deli and catering services. Now in its 30th year, Fournos
has become a household name across South Africa, having been voted Best Bakery
by the Best of Joburg Reader’s Choice Awards for the last 23 years. “This is the first time we have appointed a
PR agency and the team is excited to work with the Tribeca team to see what
they can do for our business,” said Michael Kalogirou, founder and director of
Fournos. “It’s a big year for us as we celebrate 30 years in the industry, and
it was important to partner with the right agency to help us celebrate this very
exciting milestone.” Airbnb and IOC announce major global Olympic partnership The International Olympic Committee (IOC) and
Airbnb have announced a significant agreement to support the Olympic Movement
through to 2028. The nine-year, five-Games partnership is designed to create a
new standard for hosting that will be a win for host cities, a win for
spectators and fans, and a win for athletes. In line with the Olympic Agenda 2020, the IOC’s
strategic roadmap for the future, and Airbnb’s mission to promote sustainable
travel, the agreement will support the sustainability objectives of the Olympic
Movement in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The agreement includes accommodation provisions
that will reduce costs for Olympic Games organisers and stakeholders, minimise
the need for construction of new accommodation infrastructure for the Olympic
Games period, and generate direct revenue for local hosts and communities. “Airbnb and the IOC have a strong track record in
creating and accommodating the world’s greatest events. Our Olympic partnership
will ensure that the Games are the most inclusive, accessible and sustainable
yet, and leave a lasting positive legacy for athletes and host communities,”
said Airbnb co-founder, Joe Gebbia. IOC President Thomas Bach said the innovative partnership underpinned their strategy to ensure that the efficient staging of the Olympic Games is sustainable and leaves a legacy for the host community. “With Airbnb’s support, we will also develop new opportunities for athletes around the world to develop their own direct revenue streams through the promotion of physical activity and the Olympic values,” he said. “From this partnership there will also be direct benefit for athletes beyond the $5 billion the IOC is distributing during this Olympiad for their benefit to organising committees and sports organisation around the world.” HUAWEI Open Advertising ID (OAID) solution assists
advertisers to deliver personalised ads Over 20 million South Africans now use mobile
devices. With the increase in the business and personal use of these
smartphones, most advertisers are now using mobile advertising solutions as
they have a comparatively wider reach. The Huawei Open Advertising ID (OAID) platform supports
advertising solutions that have tracking, monetisation, security,
personalisation and advertising identifier benefits for advertisers and
marketers alike. It has a key user privacy data protection feature that
highlights the online security commitment by Huawei Mobile Services (HMS),
whose Huawei Ads Kit features the OAID solution. In the era of big data, driven
by mobile internet, user privacy protection has become a legal and moral
priority. Making
moves Journalists to take part in UCT Summer School
2020: Building an Informed Citizenry The University of Cape Town’s annual Summer
School programme, now celebrating its 70th year of existence, provides the
single biggest opportunity for the public to enjoy the knowledge resources of
the university. From 6 to 25 January 2020, the precinct of the university’s
Middle Campus will be transformed into an open community space where an array
of over 120 short courses and lectures on everything from popular science to
climate change, music to current affairs, social issues and politics will
challenge ingrained assumptions and provide enlightenment on key debates. Several journalists are taking part in this year’s programme including Pieter Du Toit (The Stellenbosch Mafia), Crispian Oliver (How to steal a city), Ferial Haffajee and Jan-Jan Joubert. Thuli Madonsela, Lawson Naidoo, Dr Iraj Abdian, Yasmin Sooka, Dr Zwelethu Jolobe and Professor Lungisile Ntsebeza are also on the agenda. For the full UCT Summer School programme here. Radio talent coaching the ‘Wise’ way Peter Wise, known as ‘the Wiseman’, a
40-years South African radio shows host, is offering a talent-coaching festive
season package, for folk who are already presenting on radio, and for those who
just have a passion to be on the ‘wireless’ in the future, who have some down
time in the forthcoming holidays. The
eight-sessions cover the essential attributes to be a news/sport/speciality
content presenter, music or talk show host, plus the technical abilities
required to become a professional broadcaster. The additional components of the
course also cover radio programming, advertising sales and marketing. Disabled
since birth, Wise’s career started at Nelson Mandela University campus radio in
1979, to Algoa FM, Highveld Stereo, SAfm, Radio 2000, Classic FM, Mix FM, and,
nowadays as host of the LM Radio weekday evenings and Saturday night ‘LM Rocks’
shows. Email
peter@wiseweb.co.za  or call 076 130 6390. Africa’s next generation of
storytellers shine at the Joburg Film
Festival Films produced by graduates of
M-Net Magic in Motion (MiM) internship programme and the MultiChoice Talent
Factory’s Academies (MTF) in East, West and Southern Africa will be shown at
the Joburg Film Festival from 19-24 November. MiM films Themba Lam; Moratuwa; Umqhele; Unkosikazi Wokuqala; Magenge and Isipho Sothando, as well as MTF East Africa Academy films Promises & Ensulo; MTF West Africa’s Life of Bim & Dreamchaser and MTF Southern Africa’s Savannah Skies & The Painting will be screened at the dedicated structure on Nelson Mandela Square in Sandton and at Kings Theatre in Alexandra, at no cost. Established in 2014, MiM is focused
on transforming the South African film and TV industry by upskilling students
and empowering them with substantial knowledge and experience in just 12
months. They are suitably equipped to embark on a career in their chosen field
with some having started their own production companies and produced
award-winning content. Launched in May 2018 as part of
MultiChoice Africa’s ground-breaking corporate shared value initiative, the MTF
Academy is a 12 month-long, fully-funded training programme aimed at upskilling
the next generation of passionate young film creatives. The Academy’s
curriculum was tailored alongside MultiChoice Africa partner institutions
Pan-Atlantic University in Lekki, Kenyatta University in Nairobi, and the
University of Zambia in Lusaka, which will respectively confer the course
qualification upon completion of the Academy programme. TAC Studios brings newly finished series and fresh development projects on its content slate for DISCOP Johannesburg TAC Studios, the production arm of US-based The
Africa Channel, announces its showcase of brand new scripted developments, Move On andAsylum, and its fresh finished
originals My Design Rules and May’s Kitchen to headline 2019’s
DISCOP Johannesburg. These new shows will feature as part of TAC Studios’
premium premier slate for local African distribution among its broad catalogue
of African-influenced content. “As the
borders of content become blurred thanks to OTT platforms like Netflix and
Amazon, our new and current slate of finished and development shows aspire to
meet the demand for content with appeal beyond its borders of origin,” said Brendan
Gabriel, Johannesburg-based head of creative and production for TAC Studios. “This
has always been our core agenda of our mother ship, The Africa Channel, that
has for over the past 12 years bridged the geographical divide between African
influenced content and North America.” For the Diary Last day to submit pitch innovative stories on sexual and reproductive health and rights Gender Links (GL) in its capacity as secretariat
for the SADC Gender Protocol Alliance, is calling for stories to be published
as part of its series during the Sixteen Days of Activism that will be used to move
from the 16 Days to Generation Equality. GL will pay $100 for innovative and
in-depth stories in print, radio or video that can be uploaded online. Your key
contact is Tarisai Nyamweda, GL media manager: media@genderlinks.org.za. Submit your story ideas or pitch using this
link. Sunday
Times Gen Next slated for June 2020 The Sunday Times Gen Next event is due to take
place for the 16th year on the 4th of June 2020. The Youth Marketing Conference, Interactive
Showcase, and Awards Ceremony will be charged with lots of energy, great
insight, and loads of inspiration for effective youth engagement strategies. Gen Next offers youth brands a great partnership
opportunity that includes national exposure in our 6 month marketing campaign,
as well as face-to-face engagement during our interactive showcase to over 1000
youth! Sign up by the end of November and take advantage of the15% Black Friday discount. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.