As the year draws to a close, marketers around the world start speculating about trends for the new year. Which media platform is going to be the next big thing? We all know that print is in a general decline. The broadcast media remains stable but is the most expensive channel. And digital is continuously evolving at what feels like the speed of light. As marketers, we keep on looking to the future but we forget
that there are things we can do better now. Regardless of ‘the next big thing’,
it is my opinion that marketing practitioners need to put more effort into a
few proven marketing tactics rather than jumping on the trends bandwagon. With more than 90 million mobile connections in South Africa, of
which 20 to 22 million are smartphone users, mobile marketing should be a key
focus for brands. Data shows that 71% of South African web pages are served to mobile phones
which means not only is mobile advertising important, but brands need to make
sure their web sites are optimised for mobile browsing. And YouTube is still
relevant as 42% of South African internet users watch video on their mobile
phones. Let your marketing videos tell a story. Keep them
interesting and let the content appeal to your audience’s emotions. And don’t
forget that your audience’s need for information should come first over your
brand’s promotional message. This GoPro video is a good example of how to tell a story about your
products or service offerings. With YouTube being the second largest search engine on
the Internet your marketing videos must be optimised not only for Google and
other traditional search engines but also for YouTube. Make use of video site
maps and mRSS feeds to get the most out of your videos. Google Ads Keyword
Planner and Google Analytics are must-have tools for any marketer. For your video story (or any other digital marketing
campaign) to reach the right audience, it is important that marketers explore
location-based marketing. Going into 2020 make sure your marketing strategy
matches opted-in, privacy-compliance location data received from smartphones to
points of interest (POI) related to your products and services. These POIs can
be your store’s physical location, that of your competitors, restaurants,
grocery stores, and shopping malls. It is so much more effective to create
audiences based on real-world visits, rather than likes and follows on social
media. Digital is here to stay. Early adopters of digital
marketing confirm that video marketing is worth the investment. Data shows that
it results in 66% more qualified leads and more than 50% increase in brand
awareness. If I could have
one wish come true in 2020 it is that it would be the year of killing
dinosaurs. The year that legacy companies will come to realise the importance
of digital marketing, and that it is here to stay. Let’s make 2020 the year of
digital marketing, and allocate more budget towards this ‘new’ way of
marketing! Mahesh Singh founded iClick Marketing in 2012. Over the past seven years, he has overseen the exponential growth of the agency that earned it the New Generation Award for Most Innovative Digital Campaign by a Small Agency for its client Dis-Chem in 2018. Singh holds a B.comm Marketing Management degree focused in Marketing Management from the University of South Africa (UNISA). Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.