The Media Online’s weekly round up of moves in
media. This week’s BIG move: Gugu Ntuli appointed group executive in charge of corporate affairs and marketing at the SABC Gugu Ntuli is the new group executive of corporate
affairs and marketing at the SABC, taking up the postion on 1 December 2019. Ntuli is not new to the SABC having spent time in
the pubic broadcaster’s communications division. She left to explore
opportunities in diverse business environments, including the financial
services and the mining sector. Ntuli has also held senior roles with
sports entities in the UK and Stellenbosch University, as well as Adidas and
Reebok in the Western and Southern African Regions. She brings to the SABC extensive and valuable
experience in strategic marketing and communications, media relations,
reputation and brand management, which she gained from her international and
local business assignments. The SABC said the appointment was in line with the
corporation’s commitment to achieve leadership stability and performance in all
its business units. Ntuli holds an MBA from Coventry Business School
(UK), BSc Applied Sciences and a Bachelor of Business from the Queensland
University of Technology (Australia). People moves Heineken SA expands management team, adds to the
global team talent pool Heineken South Africa has announced new
appointees to its management team, along with promotions to its global
group. Nantha Moodley, former sales director, has been
promoted to the role of regional route-to-market director for Africa, Middle
East and Eastern Europe. Moodley will be based in Heineken’s headquarters in
Amsterdam. Financial director Eric Van Lokven, who has been
with the South African business for four years, has also been promoted to a new
global role within Heineken. Maarten Hoedemaker, who will be tasked with
driving the local business’ growth plan, replaces him. “Eric and Nantha joined Heineken SA at its
inception in 2015, and they have both been instrumental in growing the business
to unprecedented success,” says Gerrit van Loo, managing director Heineken
South Africa. Jason Cox has succeeded Moodley as the sales director
while Kedibone Molefi has been promoted to the position of legal director. Business moves Avatar
Agency Group opens Durban Office Marketing
and advertising agency outfit, Avatar
Agency Group,will be opening a new office in Morningside, Durban.
Avatar Durban is a new addition to the Group, which also includes Avatar
Johannesburg, Avatar Cape Town, Avatar Public Relations and Avatar Media
Agency. “The move to Ethekwini emagagasini, as Durban
is affectionately known is long overdue. We have been working on several
projects in the province for some time and believe there is room in the market
for a mass market thinking agency like Avatar,” said Zibusiso Mkhwanazi,
Group CEO of M&N Brands. “I
am excited to see our agency network M&N Brands expand to nine agencies now
and being a step closer to our vision to build an African owned agency network
for Africans by Africans.” Avatar is the largest black owned and
black managed full-service agency in South Africa. Wunderman Thompson wins Standard Bank specialist digital
business Wunderman Thompson, formerly Wunderman SA, has won
the Standard Bank specialist digital business in a five-way pitch against
Deloitte Digital, Accenture Interactive, VMLY&R and Flume. The scope of the work covers the full digital remit
beyond campaigns, including Technology, UX, CRM and social. This is a
significant win for Wunderman Thompson as it broadens the agency’s engagement
with Standard Bank beyond its current technology engagements. The
relationship with Standard Bank stems back to over a decade, and so this win
further cements a longstanding partnership. “In a world where performance marketing and online
experiences affect the brand as much as communication does, our appointment
becomes pivotal. We are shaping the ‘Brand as Experience’ components of
the marketing mix that is taking a very powerful seat at the table due to its
rise in importance to the consumer,” said Haydn Townsend, Group CEO of
Wunderman Thompson SA. MyToyota
launches intelligence platform to keep Toyota drivers connected FCB Joburg has pulled together a 360°
campaign to communicate Toyota South Africa’s innovative cloud-based internet-connected
intelligence platform aimed at providing in-mobility wi-fi connected services. The new platform, Toyota Connect, is housed within
the MyToyota App, which launched in 2014. The technology provides Toyota owners
with access to a myriad of internet-connected services, including music and
video streaming, battery health check, vehicle service bookings, fleet
management alerts and driver rating capabilities. It satisfies two key drivers of Toyota’s business
today: Its desire to continually improve and offer the consumer a better and
more seamless experience with the Toyota brand, and the fact that connectivity
is fast becoming a consideration for selecting your model of choice when making
a vehicle purchase. As of September 2019, all new Toyota and
Lexus models sold in South Africa come standard with in-car wi-fi, including
15GB free data. ANA completes restructuring, adding new services The African News Agency (ANA) has concluded its
restructuring process and is looking forward to the next chapter in the news
agency’s evolution. ANA said it was also categorically clear that it was
not closing its doors, despite rumours to the contrary. Quite the
opposite, as the re-organisation of the business has led to a “revitalised,
energetic and more cohesive offering, in touch with what media platforms and
owners require in keeping abreast of current news and happenings on the African
continent”. “The restructuring has been the source for much
negative media coverage of late, which is a pity, as the steps we have taken to
ensure the agency’s growth and sustainability, should really be welcomed
instead of disparaged,” said Valentine Dzvova, acting CEO of ANA. “We have a great product and team, one that we
believe in.  We are already delivering results with this enhanced
offering, working with new partners, strengthening existing relationships, and
releasing the rich storytelling opportunities and exciting news content that
Africa, as a whole can provide, to eager audiences around the world.” Chief
marketing officer, Vernon Adams, recently returned from the 4th BRICS Media
Forum in Brazil. He said ANA had grown and strengthened its trategic
partnerships, “especially with BRICS compatriots at Xinhua, China.org, Sputnik, IANS, and new partner, The
Print India”. In
addition to its news wire services, ANA’s enhanced offering will see ANA+ and
ANA Pictures, play an integral role in the business.  ANA+ now provides
press release storification and Brand Story Social Media Videos, adding its
specialised services to the existing ANA PR and Media Production Services. ANA
Pictures will add its award winning photographers’ services to ANA Features, a
bespoke premium service offered to news subscribers and commercial brands. Swipe iX sets eyes on the cloud computing
market Swipe iX is
shifting focus towards cloud-based digital solutions. With successful
implementations for key clients such as Shoprite, Old Mutual and M-Net to name
a few, Swipe iX’s CEO, Hendri Lategan, along with the founding partners Deon Heunis
(CTO) and Leo Redelinghuys (MD), said the company was focused on utilising
cloud computing combined with emerging technologies such as machine learning
(ML), natural language processing (NLP) and artificial intelligence (AI). “Swipe iX is not so much focusing on the physical migrations to the cloud, but more on the potential one may have for implementing and leveraging the power of cloud-based applications once there.” He continued “While there is an absolute imperative for transferring key business functions and workloads to cloud-based infrastructures, where the real opportunity lies in the reinvention and innovation of these functions with the immensely powerful toolkit that will be made available to you,” said Lategan. Grapes Digital to handle the digital duties of
OMVED Therapies Grapes Digital, the full-fledged digital marketing agency helping brands embrace creative, technological and digital media evolution, has won the entire digital duties of OMVED Therapies, a natural wellness brand. Grapes Digital will manage the company’s digital mandate comprising of social media, digital strategy, influencer marketing along with creating innovative content strategy.The account was won in multi-agency pitch and will be handled from the Mumbai office. Making
moves SPARK Media invites Lumen to conduct Eye Tracking
research SPARK Media, having just released its ROOTS
research which shows that many people recall reading their local papers
regularly for news and shopping information, will now add another crucial layer
to that knowledge for marketers using latest technology. The outcome will assist
marketers in evaluating local papers against an attention metric. “Just because you can see something doesn’t
mean that you will see it. Lumen’s eye tracking technology helps us
understand what people look at – and what they ignore,” explained Mike Follett,
managing director at Lumen. “The Lumen team will be here in November to conduct
an attention study on SPARK Media’s local papers as well as our Caxton Magazine
titles, to understand the reality of what gets noticed and given attention in
our print media,” said SPARK Media’s marketing services and research director,
Debbie McIntyre. The research and findings will be presented to the
industry early next year. Are you listening to your ‘inner Hippo’? In today’s fast-moving
consumer environment, industries change, customers evolve and new products and
services come and go. It is important that brands and their messaging stay
relevant to continue capturing the attention of their customers. This means
that they must keep innovating their offering in line with customer needs and
communicate this evolution through their branding. “Brands that are
constantly reinventing themselves and progress in line with new trends, are the
ones who continue to be successful,” said Vera Nagtegaal, the executive head of
Hippo.co.za. To keep pace with the
consumer and the market, Hippo.co.za has evolved its new identity, launched
in 2018, through its latest campaign that kicked off in November this year. “The 2018 relaunched
Hippo stood between consumers and their poor decisions. The 2019 evolved Hippo
actually becomes each person’s inner voice, as illustrated in the campaign,”
explained Nagtegaal. The creative strategy
behind the campaign takes the next step in entrenching the Hippo in people’s
hearts and, even more importantly, in their minds. The refresh of the
Hippo branding will be carried out through multiple media channels – at every
consumer touch point, including humorous and fun video vignettes, said Deon
Kruger, Managing Director of Human.Kind, who conceptualised the digital aspects
of the campaign. The Global Editors Network announces its closure The Global Editors
Network (GEN) will cease its activities due to lack of sustainable finances.
The decision comes nine years since GEN’s founding. GEN, the worldwide association of editors-in-chief and senior news executives, was established in 2011 as an independent NGO to help news media navigate the disruption brought on by technology, to facilitate collaboration, promote innovation and support sustainable business models. Its funding came primarily from three sources: platforms, foundations and news organisations — the latter through tickets sales for the GEN Summit, the organisation’s flagship annual event. GEN strove to retain its financial and editorial independence by guaranteeing a diversity of funding sources. The GEN CEO Bertrand Pecquerie also said he is still optimistic about the future of our industry. “I certainly do not want to communicate a message of hopelessness. The challenges are immense, but new, creative initiatives abound and it is important to keep fighting for independent and quality news media.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.