East Coast Gold digital radio station launches today [Monday, 4 November]. The station is designed to appeal for music lovers wanting to listen to a playlist of classic hits. East Coast Gold
caters to music lovers who are looking for a music experience that embraces
their love of classic hits. The digital radio
station will be accessible via the East Coast Radio app and on the station
website. East Coast Radio is
the first commercial radio station in South Africa to launch a digital music
radio station. East Coast Radio
General Manager, Boni Mchunu said that she is proud of the strides ECR is
making. “At ECR we are
committed to innovative, cutting edge offerings and East Coast Gold is a
testament to that. It’s a proud moment for us as KZN’s No.1 Hit Music Station
to launch something that is the first-of-its kind and especially to hero this
unique music offering. We are extremely excited to launch East Coast Gold and
more importantly we look forward to the future as we launch many more of these
unique digital stations,” said Mchunu. Kagiso Media Chief
Exec: Radio, Nick Grubb said: “We see that access to streaming channels is
starting to grow in the SA market, and they offer an infinite number of new
entertainment options to consumers. But we also see high loyalty to FM radio
brands that have been a part of listener’ lives for so long. This is an
exciting combination of these two factors. Anyone can publish a music channel
these days, but ECR will do it radio-style – with their unique flair, talented
presenters, and reliable local information.” The digital offering
has an exciting line-up planned for listeners. Veteran radio
presenter, Gordon Graham, will helm the breakfast show, weekdays from 6am to
9am. The morning show will include news and traffic reports. Jane Linley-Thomas
brings her colourful personality to the daytime show (weekdays 10am-2pm), while
KZN favourite, Damon Beard heads up the drive show (Weekdays 3-7pm). Radio legend Alex Jay
will keep listeners entertained on the weekends. Sunday Solid Gold
will air the best music from the 60’s and 70’s. East Coast Gold is
officially launching November 4 on the East Coast Radio website and app, which
is available on the App store and Google Play store. Visit www.ecr.co.za
for East Coast Gold’s full line-up. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.