With the global confusion currently pervading our lives it’s not an exaggeration to say people look to good design for comfort and direction. I like to think of graphic design as the corporate sister of art and great design always flies a bold brand flag, telling the consumer it is unique and trustworthy. Here are five graphic design trends I predict seeing more of in 2020. “Colour is a power which directly influences the soul.” ~ Wassily Kandinsky Due in large part to 3D animation
and wildly responsive website design, the old rules about colour and matching
palettes has flown the coop. As Full Stack Developer, Olga Stashenko says, “It
has long been no secret that colours play a big role in creating the impression
of a project. But right now this fact is beginning to be used to the full.”
We’ll see uber-bright and colourful elements popping up in 2020 – from logo
design to websites. Scroll down Apple
Music’s site for example, and see how the shades of “It hits all the right
notes” mesh – from shocking pink to purple to blue. “Typography is the craft of endowing human language with a durable visual form.” ~ Robert Bringhurst If, as Neil Postman said, “Typography fostered the modern idea of individuality”; 2020 and beyond will be stratospheric in terms of bespoke brand fonts. What better way to stand out than to have your own customised typeface. Graphic Mama goes into detail with her typeface predictions saying design will be, “Decorated with beautiful flowers, geometric shapes, and more creative elements, artistic typography is certainly the perfect solution to nail the attention.” An example of using storytelling
through both typography and logo design can be seen in the work with the Nelson
Mandela Foundation celebrating Madiba’s Centenary
in 2018. In homage to the great man, the avatar is a combination of his own
drawings and the unique font was created from Nelson Mandela’s handwriting and
took some 7 months to craft from letters Madiba had written. “My idea was to create emojis that Africans can relate to.” ~ O’Plerou Grebet from Ivory Coast In our selfie obsessed world it
follows that design trends will become equally personalised or at the very
least more inclusive than six shades of skin tone. For example, O’PlerouGrebet,
a 21 year old from Ivory Coast, has created more than 350 downloadable emojis
with West African cultural references. Closer to home,
check out proto-Joburger and design guru Bradley Kirshenbaum’s Instagram feed for a series of selfie emojis. It’s only a matter of time before
the emoji goes corporate and becomes incorporated into more brand design. “Every great design begins with an even better story.” ~ Lorinda Mamo I love these words by Lorinda Mambo
– however far down the rabbit hole we go with interactive design – good design
will always relate to a story. As humans we innately respond to something with
we can connect – something which sparks our imagination. Using a storytelling
mechanism is becoming particularly trendy on websites – where better to harness
the power of a brand or personal journey? 
Awwwards has a gorgeous selection of websites on their Storytelling Awards
page for anyone looking for some creative inspiration. “I don’t trust words. I trust pictures.” ~ Gilles Peress In a world of
fake news we crave realism and there’s a reason why Instagram has one billion
monthly active users and looks set to overtake Facebook in 2020 – people love
photos – the more authentic the better. While there will be amazing integration
of photos with 3D design, images give an underlying authority to design. In closing, something Alex Bigman predicts, “By 2033, stock photographers will have staged every humanly conceivable natural circumstance, so there will no longer be any need to have photographers.” Could this be true? There were a trillion photos taken last year, so in a way it just might be. But there’s no stock footage capturing my grandchildren growing up or my garden after the first Spring rain. Ditto any brand worth its salt will use real time authentic images. Sheila McGillivray is Tribe Leader at One Lady and a Tribe, an ad agency but not your typical one. Facebook:
//www.facebook.com/OneLadyandaTribe Twitter:  @1LadyandaTribe Instagram:
@oneladyandatribe Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.