The media tech future is evolving all the time, with new technologies transforming industries, none more so than media. Predictions and trends in journalism, media and technology for 2019 from the Reuters Institute, in conjunction with the University of Oxford, allude to the imminent arrival of folding phones and 5G capable handsets, while artificial intelligence and virtual reality will provide new opportunities for both brands and media like. Annual trade show, Mediatech Africa will showcase many of these innovations 17-19 July this year as it’s a high energy B2B show that brings the latest and best tech in the world of media and entertainment, to South African audiences. This year also sees the return of previous show highlights, like the Black Box and the drone cage; as well as new and original interactive areas. However, the real media trend this year, is the pressure on platform companies to regulate the spread of fake news and misinformation “undermining democracies around the world”, as the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism puts it; as well as the protection of individual privacy. There is no doubt the media industry is in crisis, and this has a knock-on effect on brands, which have to consider even more carefully where they invest their advertising spend and which media and social media channels to trust, when even brands are falling victim to fake news attacks. In tech we trust It will come down to more sophisticated algorithms and artificial intelligence to broker more trust in information, both from media, as well as brands. I’m going to unpack five of the top trends: *Mediatech Africa, the Media and Entertainment Technology Trade Show, takes place 17-19 July 2019, at The Dome, Northgate, Johannesburg. It intends to shape the way creativity inspires, innovates and delivers, and covers the following industry sectors: Broadcast TV & Radio; Sound Light Staging; Audio Visual Integration; Film & Video Production; Digital Media VOD – OTT; and Studio DJ Recording. Register here. Simon Robinson is Mediatech Africa trade show director. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za