The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions and winners in the media industry. Here are the finalists for the 2019 Sikuvile Journalism Awards. HARD NEWS “Dumped like a dead dog, a small piece of me died with him.” “A shepherd and Dinosaurs.”  “Order to kill was issued in jail cell.” “Tears as Hannah’s friend faces her ‘killers’ in court” COLUMNS / EDITORIAL ENTERPRISE NEWS “20-million in SA denied clean water” “An El Niño away from water crisis”  FEATURE WRITING  LAURA LOPEZ GONZALEZ PONTSHO PILANE JOAN VAN DYK  INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEWALD VAN RENSBURG EDITORIAL CARTOONS JOHN CURTIS (DR JACK & CURTIS)  “Sugar and Spice” “Respect to Aretha” “Hang on a Minute” “Defusing tension” “Putting words in this mouth” EYE WITNESS NEWS “Earthling, take me to your leader.” “Heinz, you won’t believe it” “Lady Justice.” “Manny” GRAPHIC JOURNALISM “Is it a plane? Is it a chopper? No, it’s a sky taxi!” “Latest visitor to Mars” CITY PRESS NETWERK POPULAR JOURNALISM NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS FEATURE PHOTOGRAPHS “The raw lifestyle of the hostel dwellers” PRESENTATION “Die bose Z is weg.” MULTI-PLATFORM STORIES  “Soshanguve people left stranded after heavy rains” “Boipatong Community living with raw sewage for over 5 years” ‘Sinkhole Alley’ – why Centurion looks like Swiss cheese” “Koster: Residents take charge of town killed by graft” LIFESTYLE   A campaign by FP7 McCann Dubai for Babyshop has won the Grand Prix and the Smart Spender Award in the Effective Use of Brand Purpose category of this year’s WARC Awards, a global search for next-generation marketing effectiveness. For the full list of winners from the WARC Awards, click here. South Africa’s leading value retailer Ackermans has been announced as the Platinum winner in the Children’s Clothing Store category at the 2019 Beeld Reader’s Choice Awards. Now in its ninth year, the Beeld Reader’s Choice Awards gives South Africans a chance to shine a spotlight on local brands they have come to love and cherish. Through an online voting system, readers get to cast their votes in 82 award categories, which include shopping centres, expos, tyres and even national radios stations. The votes are then tallied and the Platinum, Gold, and Silver winner in each of the categories are determined. This is the first year that the Awards have included the Children’s Clothing Store category and it proved to be extremely popular, receiving a high volume of votes. “As a brand that is ever present in the Childrenswear category, we are honoured to be recognised for our offering by the people who matter most – our customers, says Ephraim Mamabolo, marketing director at Ackermans. Denene Erasmus (left), editor of Caxton Magazines’ Farmer’s Weekly, has been awarded the inaugural IFAJ-Alltech International Award for Leadership in Agricultural Journalism at the Alltech Ideas Conference (ONE19) in Kentucky, USA. This accolade is a new award from the IFAJ (International Federation of Agricultural Journalists) that recognises excellence and leadership by young journalists. After a nomination process by IFAJ guilds around the world, international judges from Alltech and IFAJ declared Denene, editor at Farmer’s Weekly, the largest English language agricultural publication in South Africa, the recipient. ONE19 attracted approximately 3,500 attendees from 68 countries across the globe. Denene says: “The Farmer’s Weekly brand has been serving the South African agricultural industry since 1911. The publication is dedicated to agriculture and agribusiness reporting mainly throughout the Southern African region. This award is definitely not only a recognition of my personal achievements, but also a testament to the high standard of our publication and agricultural journalism in South Africa in general. We will continue to provide both commercial and new farmers with the most practical advice across our print and digital platforms to increase farming profitability.” The Awards Wrap is published every Tuesday in our newsletter. Please send all awards news to michael@wagthedog.co.za. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za