Originally planned to take place next week (2-4) April the inaugural Marketing Achievement Awards and Summit has been moved to new dates in June 2019. Having heard from two sources that the event had been cancelled, The Media Online decided to find out what is happening. The organising team, speaking exclusively to The Media Online explained, “Due to numerous requests, the 2019 awards ceremony and Marketing Achievement Summit, will now be taking place on 26 and 27 June 2019 at Sun City.” They added, “There were substantially more entries than anticipated. Many entrants and potential delegates wanted to attend the event, but said the original dates were unsuitable. In the best interest of the marketing industry, and in order to make the awards more accessible, this year’s event will be moved to the dates in June. The new dates provide enough time for those wanting to attend to make the necessary arrangements.” With so many entries, the judges are having a tough time selecting the best and bravest of marketers, the release further elaborated, before reiterating that “the change of date will ensure that all marketers who have made the effort to enter the awards are given the opportunity not only to be in the room, but to extend the invitation to their agencies, clients and the broader marketing community.” The awards celebrate excellence in the science and art of marketing and recognise and reward successful marketing initiatives and thought leadership in the South African marketing industry. In the spirit of future-proofing the industry, raising the bar and showcasing the sector’s best talent, a council of esteemed marketing professionals collaborated to launch the awards. This is a developing story and more information will be coming next week, so keep your eyes peeled to the site. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za