Bartle Bogle Hegarty retains Barclay’s UK account. Mindshare launches new division. Google’s bad ads report. Spark Foundry wins MCM Worldwide’s global media account. Perform Media rebrands as DAZN Media. New report highlights importance of data. Creative agency Bartle Bogle Hegarty London (BBH) has retained Barclays as a client following a review earlier this year. The Drum has reported BBH London is working on repositioning the British bank. Karen Martin, managing director of BBH London, told the magazine the agency was “incredibly proud” of the work it had done for Barclays over a period of 17 years, but that they would “never rest on our laurels”.  She said BBH had pitched against some of the best agencies in town but that BBH’s “deep expertise and future-facing skills proved that we continue to be the best creative partner for Barclays as it enters its next chapter”. For more, read The Drum’s story here. WPP’s Mindshare has launched a new division. The aim of +49 Media was to implement more effective media strategies and more efficient buying in Canada for brands and independent agencies based in the United States, said Devon MacDonald, CEO, Mindshare Canada (left). “We created +49 Media to support agencies and brands interested in growing their footprint in the Canadian market and connecting with the Canadian consumer,” said  MacDonald. “Think of +49 as an extension of a client’s existing marketing team with a mandate to support their media investment in every channel to reach the Canadian audience.” Operating out of Los Angeles, +49 Media is led by Billy Poole, vice president, business development, who brings comprehensive media experience from working in media sales with all media platforms for the top media suppliers in the Canadian market. For more, check out the story on PR Newswire. Google bans six million ads every day. That’s according to its Bad Ads Report 2018, which reported taking down a total of 2.3 billion misleading ads and one million bad accounts – twice as many as in 2017. Google defines bad ads as ‘misleading, inappropriate, or harmful ads’ that violates its advertising policies and pose a threat to users, Google’s partners, and the “sustainability of the open web itself.“ It also worked with White Ops and the FBI to take down an ad fraud ring that generated over 3 billion bids daily at its peak. For more on this, read the story on The Drum. Another day, and another win for Publicis Media. Having embarked on a review, luxury travel and lifestyle brand MCM Worldwide has chosen Spark Foundry as its global media agency of record. The agency will handle global strategy, content, digital buying and data and analytics for MCM across its US, EMEA and APAC markets. AgencySpy has more details, here. To find out more, published by WARC, click here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za