Winners from the SAFTA Awards. 2019 IAB Bookmark Awards finalists announced. FEPE extends deadline for 2019 Awards to 8 March 2019. Email entries now accepted for Sikuvile Awards. 2019 IAB Bookmark Awards finalists announced. Alliance Media named best OOH company in Namibia. Five of South Africa’s most fun personalities nominated for the Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards 2019. Appy Awards now open for entries. MultiChoice was the most awarded broadcaster at The South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTA), taking home 48 awards – more than half the total – from more than 150 SAFTA nominations. These included the most awarded productions in all major categories: feature film, TV comedy, TV drama, soap, and telenovela. Mzansi Magic was the most awarded channel overall, with 15 wins. Showmax had a bit of a coup, becoming the first streaming service ever to win a SAFTA. In fact, its debut original, Tali’s Wedding Diary, won 5 awards including best comedy. The River, with 10 wins, was the most awarded production overall across all categories. e.tv scoops four SAFTA Awards Fellow broadcaster e.tv  walked away with four SAFTA awards. These included: Best Actress – TV Soap – Kgomotso Christopher (Scandal!)
Best Actor – TV Soap – Jamie Bartlett (Rhythm City)
Best Achievement in Wardrobe – Telenovela – Broken Vows
Best Achievement in Art Direction – Telenovela – Broken Vows Also, Scandal!, Rhythm City and Broken Vows each received Golden Horns. VIA wins two SAFTA awards Two TV productions that aired on the Afrikaans lifestyle channel VIA (DStv channel 147) also won SAFTA awards. The food show JAN was voted best variety programme while the agricultural TV show Nisboere was named magazine show of the year. To see the full list of SAFTA winners, click here. 68 judges across 76 categories reviewed and judged over 750 Bookmark Award entries this past few weeks. The results of their (and your) hard work are in, as we announce the anticipated shortlist for the 2019 IAB Bookmark Awards. See the full list of finalists here. The 2019 IAB Bookmark Awards honours students, individuals, agencies, publishers and brands that have produced creative and innovative work that delivers on their set business objectives. The final round of judging takes place on site in Johannesburg and Cape Town on the 8th and 9th of March 2019. The Marketing Panel received a record number of entries this year with the final list trending in the following categories: Branded Content, Craft Excellence in Online Video Production, Social Media Campaigns and Social Media Innovation.  Mobile features across the board, and specialists entries for Channel Innovation, Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence and Paid Search Marketing are strong, but Social and Video are the more dominant categories in the 2019 Bookmark Awards finalist list. Winners will be announced at the 11th Annual Bookmark Awards to be held at The Forum, Bryanston, on the evening of 28 March 2019, in partnership with Vicinity Media. Tickets for the awards ceremony can be purchased here. Following a rush of late entries, FEPE International is extending the deadline for entries to its 2019 Awards to 8 March 8. The Awards will be presented at the Gala Dinner at its Annual Congress, which will held at the Dubai Intercontinental Hotel, Festival City in Dubai from May 1-3. 2019 will see the second year of FEPE’s Rising Star Awards for someone under 30 who has made an outstanding contribution to the out of home industry. Nominated individuals should be directly employed in the OOH industry, working for a media owner, specialist or technology company. As in previous years, there will be Awards for Lifetime Achievement, Leadership, Technical Achievement and outstanding Creative Achievement. The latter are divided into two categories: Classic and Digital. For the first time this year the winner of the FEPE International Technology and Innovation Award will be chosen by delegates at the annual Congress. The FEPE judging panel, chaired by Executive Director John Ellery, will select the best three submissions for this Award, and they will then be invited to present to delegates on the afternoon of the first full day of this year’s Congress programme, May 2. Nominations can be made by any FEPE Member or recognised National OOH Association. For a nominations form go to www.fepe.com and for further details contact Richard  Saturley  at richard@fepe.com. Entries to the 2019 Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards can now be submitted on email to penelope@pdmedia.org.za. Previously only hard copy entries were accepted by the Awards. Entries have to be according to the rules as set out in the official entry kit. Entrants are therefore urged to ensure their entries are supplied as pdfs or tiffs as per the rules. Entry forms must also have their editor’s signature and motivation as well as proof of payment for each category entered. Entries that are not in the specified format will be disqualified. With the 13 March deadline quickly approaching, journalists and their editors should be finalising their entries to submit as soon as possible. This year there is no extension to the deadline. The Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards recognise excellence in journalism this and strive to reward journalists for publishing the truth under difficult, and at times threatening, conditions. This year the Awards will take place on 12 September 2019 at The Venue, Melrose Arch. Alliance Media Namibia has been named as the overall winner in the OOH (out of home) category at the PMR (Professional Management Review) Awards. “The Alliance Media Namibia team has been truly committed to outdoor and airport advertising in Namibia, and the award further solidifies Alliance Media’s position as the market leader in OOH in Namibia,” said Greg Benatar, group sales director. The PMR Awards are awarded through an independent survey. The ratings are sourced from top decision makers to identify leaders in all major industries who contribute to economic growth and development. Alliance Media has been awarded as the best OOH media company in multiple African markets for the past 10 years; 2009 – 2019. In addition, Alliance Media was awarded the “Best Media Owner in Africa” at the recent 2018 South African Media Awards. Five South Africans have been named as nominees in the 2019 Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards. They are Nomzamo Mbatha (left), AKA, Siya Kolisi, Kagiso Rabada, and Somizi in the Favourite South African Star category. Other African nominees include Adesua Etomi-Wellington, IK Osakioduwa (Nigeria), Sauti Sol (Kenya) and Stone Bwoy (Ghana) in the Favourite African Star category. Globally acclaimed musician Davido from Nigeria is the Africa nominee in the Favourite Global Music Star award featured amongst David Guettaand Taylor Swift. Music mogul DJ Khaled is set to host the 2019 Nickelodeon’s KCAs, the biggest, slimiest party of the year for kids. He is also nominated in three categories at the Awards.
Leading the pack with the most nominations are: Avengers: Infinity War, with 10 nominations; Black Panther, with five nominations; and Cardi B and Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation, with four nominations each. First-time nominees include: Jason Momoa, Emilia Clarke, James Corden, Noah Centineo, Bebe Rexha, Tyra Banks, and Riverdale. This year also introduces five new categories for voting: Favourite  TV Host, Favourite  TV Judges, Favourite  Superhero and Favourite  Gamer. And, for the first time, kids will get to decide how they want to help the world in a new category called How Do You Want to Help? The Appy Awards are all about acknowledging creativity and excellence in app design. This year, a new group of categories has been added, In-App Campaigns, including: Best In-App Campaign: B2C Best In-App Campaign: B2B Best App Download Campaign Best Use of Smart Speaker App Best Use of Geo-Location Best Use of E-Commerce Best Use of Video Advertising Best Use of Mobile Social Media Campaign Best Mobile Rich Media Best App Sponsorship This new category group is for advertisers that use apps as a key element of their marketing campaigns. Entrants in these categories will be judged by their creativity and success in leveraging mobile’s unique opportunities. To find out more, click here, and to enter, click here. The Awards Wrap is published every Tuesday in our newsletter. Please send all awards news to michael@wagthedog.co.za. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za