Sikuvile Awards entries deadline extended. Dialdirect voted product of the year. Civis Analytics named as finalist in 2019 AdExchanger Awards. Red Dot Design Award seeks ‘Brands of the Year’. Innovating in tough economy delivers results for award winners. The deadline to submit entries for the Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards, as well as the Frewin, McCall and Joel Mervis newspaper competition, has been extended to 1 April 2019. The Awards, which recognise excellence in journalism and strive to reward journalists for publishing the truth under difficult, and at times threatening, conditions, are an important part of the newspaper landscape in the country. Therefore, it is vital they are as well represented as possible, showcasing the country’s best newspaper journalism talent. For this reason, it was decided to extend the deadline for just over two weeks, says the Publishers Support Services. Entries can be submitted to the Publishers Support Services (PSS) offices or via email to Penelope@pdmedia.org.za or fatima@publishersss.org.za This year the awards will take place on 12 September at The Venue, Melrose Arch. All the winners will receive R15 000, a trophy and a certiﬁcate, while all finalists will receive certiﬁcates. Commendation certiﬁcates are awarded at the judges’ discretion. The convening judge this year is Mathatha Tsedu, who also oversaw the judging panel and process last year. Dialdirect was recently voted Product of the Year in the largest consumer-voted award for product innovation. 4 000 South African households gave the insurer the nod for inspiring South Africans to drive right through its smartphone App. According to Maanda Tshifalaro (left), head of Dialdirect, the app uses the latest in telematics technology to monitor driving behaviour. If a person drives and insures right, they can get up to 75% cash back, every month. This is significantly higher than the rewards programmes offered by any competing insurance brand, and is the first offering of its kind in the market. “It’s no secret that insurance is seen as a grudge purchase. With our app, we are turning this general consensus, as well as the traditional insurance model, on its head by giving consumers the opportunity to participate in their risk management and determine what they pay for insurance,” adds Tshifalaro. “This is a true partnership between the insurer and the insured. What’s more, providing a financial incentive to drive right will make our roads safer – which is obviously in all of our best interests.” Civis Analytics has been named as a finalist in the 2019 AdExchanger Awards. The company has been nominated in the Best Data-Enabling Technology category for its Civis Customer Science software. The software brings together comprehensive customer intelligence solutions in a single product, putting the power of the most advanced data science in the hands of brands and marketers. Civis touts that brands will be able to “get to know their existing customers like never before, and target and engage new customers with unprecedented precision”. Red Dot Design Award seeks ‘Brands of the Year’ Unique and distinctive brands are the decisive factor for success on a global market. As a result, Red Dot is now offering a larger platform to brands in the competition for communication design. This is also reflected in the name of the competition, as the “Red Dot Award: Communication Design” will now be called the “Red Dot Award: Brands & Communication Design”. With immediate effect, every company within an industry can apply for the distinction “Red Dot: Brand of the Year”. This is a new development, as in the past the distinction was awarded as an honorary title to just one company per year. Professor Dr. Peter Zec, founder and CEO of the Red Dot Award, explains the reasons for this move: “We have decided to respond to the developments on the market and to adapt the competition accordingly. In direct contact with our participants and award-winners, it has become repeatedly clear to us that they want to present themselves as integrated brands. We are now making this possible.” Companies can choose from 36 industries in which to register for the distinction “Red Dot: Brand of the Year”. These range from Automotive, Furniture or Watches to Electronics, Financial Services and Retail. Marketing, product and PR managers from all over the globe can submit communication works that portray a consistent image of their brand across different channels – for example using logos, adverts, packaging and websites. The jury will award the Red Dot seal of quality to companies that win it over with their design quality, creativity and brand communication. Outstanding brands will receive a Red Dot: Best of the Best while the top achievements will be recognised with the distinction Red Dot: Brand of the Year. The winner label enjoys an international reputation and is present on all important markets. Companies use the distinction to position their brands and thus highlight their quality and design leadership around the globe. Laureates also benefit from the presentation of their brands in the yearbook, online and in exhibitions. Red Dot Award: Brands & Communication Design 2019 Submission: 18 March to 28 June 2019
Evaluation and notification of results: in July
Award ceremony and winners exhibition: 1 November 2019
Publication in the yearbook and online: in November For further information and to register, visit: www.red-dot.org/cd Despite a challenging economic environment, certain brands continued to innovate in the local market over the past twelve months and were deservedly recognised for their dynamism at the prestigious annual Product of the Year awards ceremony. There were, however, several brands that used the opportunity to introduce new innovations in their quest to attract new business amid tougher market conditions. Global information and measurement company, Nielsen once again conducted South Africa’s largest independent consumer-voted survey. After trying and testing a range of products, 4 000 consumer households were surveyed. These brands were duly rewarded with recognition for their continued commitment to quality and innovation at the 11th annual Product of the Year awards gala event, held at Hyde Park on Thursday, 14 March 2019. A new efficacy category was also introduced in 2018 to recognise brands that improve consumers’ home, surroundings or lifestyles. Here are the category winners: The Awards Wrap is published every Tuesday in our newsletter. Please send all awards news to michael@wagthedog.co.za. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za