Etihad Airways switches its global media agency of record. Canada mulls social media extremism clampdown. Asian broadcasters and agencies form sales house in UK. No one produces better content than Red Bull. Top five holding companies in APAC region. No more gender or racial targeting in Facebook ads. Ads showing to empty rooms. Etihad Airways has moved away from Starcom as its global media agency of record, which began in July 2015, selecting independent agency Crossmedia as the replacement. This after the national airline of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) placed the account under review. Not only will Crossmedia take over media for the airline, but also other Etihad brands, including Etihad Holidays and Etihad Guest, and will focus on UAE capital Abu Dhabi as a destination. The airline’s global marketing spend is listed at $30 million AdWeek has more details, here. Canada’s Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale has revealed that the country’s government is exploring possibilities of forcing social media companies to remove extremist content. This in the wake of a slew of recent terrorist attacks, during which the perpetrators used social media platforms to spread their vitriol and encourage others to commit similar atrocities. Minister Goodale revealed that this topic has been discussed among ministers at the Five Eyes meetings and at the G7 meetings. Global News has the full story, here. A number of Asian broadcasters and media agencies have come together to create a new sales house in the UK. Multicultural Media Sales (MMS) aims to safeguard and grow the best of South Asian broadcast, digital and print media in the UK, by bridging the cultural gap and demonstrating the value which these Asian mediums provide. For more information, published by Biz Asia, click here. They say that content is king, and there’s a whole host of brands out there that have produced noteworthy written, audio, video, and image pieces. Michael Long of SportsPro Media wrote a fascinating opinion piece as to why he thinks no one is better at producing eye-catching, breath-taking content than Red Bull Media. “I think there are a lot of people who are aware that we do this stuff – we do production, we do video – but not always understanding exactly how it all fits together,” says Gerrit Meier, who has been chief executive of Red Bull Media Network and managing director of Red Bull Media House since 2016. “What was not clear to me, which is amazing, is how ingrained we truly are in finding talent and doing events and how we do this on the content creation side as well.” For more, read the story here. The top five holding companies internationally are WPP, Omnicom, Publicis Groupe, Dentsu and Interpublic. The Asia Pacific region (APAC) accounted for less than 15% of revenue for most major global holding companies. An analysis by R3 Agency Family Tree reports that the regional top five for Asia-Pacific are Dentsu, Hakuhodo DY, WPP, Omnicom and Publicis Groupe, with the Beijing-headquartered BlueFocus a close number six. “Dentsu is the largest holding company in the Asia-Pacific region thanks to its dominant position in the marketing communications landscape in Japan. Regional revenue at US $6.4 billion accounts for 75% of its global revenue of US $8.5 billion,” Mumbrella Asia reported this week. For more, check out the story here. Companies advertising on Facebook for jobs, accommodation or credit can no longer target on the basis of gender, age or postcode. The issue was taken up by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), which launched legal action over the matter. Now Facebook has settled, saying “”Inclusivity is a core value for our company.” It was possible, for example, for employers to display job adverts to men only, which the ACLU said was illegal, BBC reported. In a blog post, chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg wrote: “There is a long history of discrimination in the areas of housing, employment and credit and this harmful behaviour should not happen through Facebook ads. For the full story, check out the BBC post here. A new study by IPG Media Lab, research arm of the Interpublic agency network, has found that on average, 29% of traditional TV commercials in the US air when no one is in the room, based on six months of TV-viewing data analysed by IPG Media Lab and collected by TVision, a firm that measures how people watch TV. A person had to be in the room for two or more seconds while the ad was on-screen to count as present. “The report raises the question of whether TV ads have some of the same pitfalls as digital ads. “Viewability,” an advertising metric that tracks only the impressions users see, has been a conversation in the online advertising space for the past few years now, as part of a shift to let advertisers pay only for the impressions that users could possibly view,” Quartz reported. The data in the IPG report were compiled from a TVision panel of more than 5 300 people in the top 20 TV markets in the US during the second half of 2018. The study was limited to those who watched live, scheduled programming in the first three days of its airing. For more, read the story here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za