“There is a perception that classical music is irrelevant and inaccessible. But there is a modern-day story to accompany classical music that especially younger people are connecting with”. This is according to Classic 1027 CEO Lyndon Johnstone, speaking in Johannesburg at the launch of the re-branding of South Africa’s only commercial classical music radio station. “Classical music might be old, but it definitely need not be old-fashioned,” says Johnstone. He added that the station’s vision is simple, “To make classical music accessible to all South Africans”. It is in line with this vision that Classic 1027 has relaunched with a fresh, modernised logo, a lighter, more familiar and popular sound, together with fresh new on-air talent supporting the older favourites. The new sound is supported by a cleverly-designed billboard campaign around Johannesburg, highlighting the lighter, fun side of Classic 1027. Johnstone says Classic 1027 now also provides advertisers with a platform that is premium, targeted, uncluttered and engaging. “We have the opportunity to co-create with our commercial partners multi-faceted campaigns that adds mutual value to both parties.” An exciting addition to the Classic team is well-known radio and TV personality, Claire Mawisa (left). She will be presenting all our favourite sounds from the movies, series and TV shows every Saturday from 12pm till 2pm, as well as listeners choices called “Your Music” on Sundays from 1pm till 2pm. Mawisa brings a new dynamic to the Classic line-up. Weekdays are punctuated by the acquisition of Yvette Johnson, who takes over the 10am till 2pm slot Monday to Friday with her show “Fine Living”, which will explore the finer things in life. Johnson (right) started her career more than 15 years ago at OFM in Bloemfontein and brings a wealth of radio and life experience to the team. Johnson takes over from Kutlwano Masote (left), who now hosts the “More Music Breakfast Show”. Masote is a cellist and conductor in his own right and brings four hours of the World’s Most Beautiful Music with regular news and taffic updates. In Tune with Deano Maduramuthu gets listeners homeward-bound, keeping them calm as they navigate the afternoon traffic. He is followed at 5:30pm till 7pm by Classic Business hosted by Michael Avery. Avery brings the audiene in-depth analysis of the latest business news on Classic 1027 in Gauteng as well as Fine Music Radio in Cape Town. “Winding Down” with Carolyn Steyn showcases music that allows people to relax and unwind from the stresses of the day. Steyn brings her unique personality to life in a presentation style that endears her to the music lover. She is followed by maestro Richard Cock with FullWorks, which takes listeners into the all-night programming. Head of programming, Penny Ndlovu, says this is an exciting time for Classic 1027. “We cannot wait to see how the audience responds to the modernised Classic 1027. We are also looking forward to engaging personally with commercial partners at every possible opportunity,” she says. For the full programme schedule visit www.classic1027.co.za. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za