With influencer marketing being
a buzzword at present in the marketing space, it seems to be on almost every
marketer’s lips. And now a new company has arrived in the mix in the South
African market, Humanz. Speaking exclusively to The
Media Online during its launch event, Pierre Cassuto, chief marketing officer
of Humanz and CEO for Sub-Saharan Africa, explains why the firm decided to move
into South Africa. “South Africa is an interesting
market, because it’s a market where influencer marketing wasn’t really
developed, there’s a lot of sceptics about influencer marketing, not a lot of
budgets are being spent on it, not a lot of competition and tech in the market,
so we thought it’s an easy market to scale and also learn, not only how to
enter a market and take over from existing players but also how to grow the
market as a whole.” Asked how Humanz stands out from other influencer marketing companies, which seem to be a dime a dozen these days, Cassuto responds, “We are one of very few companies in the world that are not only looking at social data, but also auditing social data from the ground up using artificial intelligence. Very few people do that, and almost no one in our field of influencer marketing. And so to stand out, we decided to stand not for the promotion of influencer marketing, but for highlighting the truth around influencer marketing. Talking about data, science, and scientific methods to vet influencers and to understand the true ROI of influencer marketing.” The company has already secured two high profile influencers to be a part of the team; former Proteas captain Graeme Smith and actress, model, television and radio presenter Pearl Thusi (left) have already come on board. Despite it being top of mind
for marketers, influencer marketing is plagued by some challenges, most notably
fraud. This includes bots, bought followers, confusing metrics and lack of
regulations. Cassuto admits, “We’re seeing a
lot of influencer marketing that is not sincere, pricing models that are all
over the place from number of followers to price per engagement, it’s an
industry that has not yet settled and in South Africa there are a lot of
predators in this space. Like any gold rush, you get gold diggers and vultures,
and fools that get lost in the desert.” But he re-emphasises that data
and technology are crucial elements to counter these challenges related to
fraud in the influencer marketing space. The gathering concluded with a
panel discussion featuring influencers/content creators and marketers. It
offered some interesting insights into this marketing strategy including the
following: Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za