Following a half-day tour showcasing the beauty of the host island nation of Mauritius, and a gala dinner, which left attendees dancing long into the night, it was back to business on the final morning of the Pan African Media Research Organisation’s (PAMRO) annual conference. Proceedings kicked off with a
presentation from Nicole Vergos, service line manager for marketing strategy
and understanding at Ipsos SA, who discussed how the disability market is an
untapped and bankable segment. “People with disabilities are
often associated with charity and the assumption is that they don’t have money.
They have just as much spending money as others,” she stressed, adding that
tapping into the disability market is as simple as a business making itself
more accessible, inclusive and personalised. Next up was Elsie
Zwennis of Geoterraimage SA, who explained why data and insights are the
fundamentals of the market research profession. She provided an inside look
into some of the work that Geoterraimage is doing, which revolves around
geospatial mapping. The company
provides fully
integrated geo-spatial information products, an example of which is its
Neighbourhood Lifestyle Index which offers an in-depth understanding of
lifestyles in a way that maximises satellite technology. The focus shifted
to the east of the African continent for the next talk, delivered by Maggie
Ireri, CEO of Tifa Research Kenya. She unpacked how passive mobile-phone
research has been used to collect data and insights from consumers. “The dynamic media
market in Kenya is forcing us to come up with different methodologies for
research,” she began, before explaining, “Passive research methodologies provide
exposure without effort from respondents.” The proliferation
of smartphones (even basic ones) in the country meant this methodology was a
perfect match to gather information from research respondents. Staying in Kenya,
Evelyn Wenani, head of strategy and client service for Tripple E Plus Media
Kenya, was the next presenter, with her talk entitled ‘Proper research
strategies in influencer marketing and choice’. She espoused the
benefits of this type of marketing, but at the same time cautioned that,
“Brands need to be alert when it comes to using influencer marketing. It can
easily have negative results for a brand. Her advice for
brands is to focus on the choice of influencer as “not all influencers work for
every brand. It’s about context and matching the influencer with the country’s
audience.” Choice of platform to post content on is another vital factor, as
not every platform will match a brand’s objective in their marketing campaign. Powerfully, Wenani
added that influencer marketing is about trust, “trust between the brand and
the influencer and the trust between the influencer and the audience”. Not originally on
the speaker programme, Pamela Gwanzura took attendees through the journey that
the Zimbabwe Advertising Research Foundation has been on. Funding has been
the biggest challenge facing the industry body, with Gwanzura explaining,
“There was no consistency in funding contributions from stakeholders, due to
what is happening in the market. But we came up with a solution, a proposed
fixed fee system as opposed to a levy system for funding our data. Sourcing for
alternative funding required innovation, out the box thinking and we managed to
source enough funds to get the research done.” The final paper of
the conference, entitled ‘Time to go rural – rural audience measurement’
focused on research efforts in Nigeria in non-urban centres, particularly
around broadcast radio. As one can imagine,
a lot of challenges were faced during this work, but innovation and
technological solutions have enabled researchers to gather data and insights
despite them. The 21st
PAMRO conference came to a close with two awards being handed out. The PAMRO Partner Paper Award, which is given to
the presenters of the paper that best reflects the aim and theme of the
conference, as well as a paper that PAMRO can partner with for the next year to
affect change, was awarded to Ejaz Mirza and Bev Tigar of Borderless Access. Their presentation centred on a case study, in
partnership with Unilever, which explored consumers’ decision making processes
and journeyed to the centre of peoples’ minds. The Best Audience Paper Award, given
for the paper that resonated the most with and elicited the best response
from the conference’s audience, was won by Margaret Irere of TIFA Research. Reflecting on the conference, PAMRO treasurer, Oresti Patricios,
said the one thing that was lacking were more papers from African countries. “What’s important for us is that we get more papers from around
Africa. We get too many papers from South Africa, as they put forward their
papers, which we do choose. What we do request is that some of the local
organising committees (LOCs) in African regions push their members to send us
papers so that we can get more papers from around Africa,” he explained. Next year’s PAMRO conference will be held in Marrakesh, Morocco. Patricios said, “We have found very few people have come from North Africa to our PAMRO conferences … If we can try and include that region it will be really cool, so that’s what we’re hoping to attract some of the North Africans into the PAMRO conference and the PAMRO family.” Here are some pictures from the final day of the conference: Michael Bratt covered the PAMRO conference
in Mauritius as a working guest of the research organisation. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za