The Media Online’s weekly round up of moves in
media. This week’s BIG move: Former Primedia and Creative Spark agency heavyweight launches digital
transformation consultancy Tanja
Lategan, the former CEO of Primedia Online and MD of full service digital
agency Creative Spark, has launched Enlight Strategic. A
digital transformation consultancy, Enlight Strategic aims to help corporates
navigate the changing business landscape, with a particular focus on marketing
technologies and tools. “There
is a clear appetite for digital transformation services in South Africa,” said
Lategan. “Digital transformation is no longer a choice; it simply has to be
done if an organisation wants to remain competitive.” Until
now, however, most digital transformation efforts have been led by the IT
department and tend to focus only on back end systems, IT infrastructure and
processes. “As
a result,” Lategan pointed out, “most companies end up only partially
transformed. In order for full transformation to take place, every part of the
business has to be involved.” That
includes marketing, an area of the business which is often allowed to operate
in a silo, with many competencies outsourced to digital agencies and media
buyers. Enter
Enlight Strategic. It understands that for holistic digital transformation to
take place, marketing services have to transform as well. As
a first step, the consultancy takes its clients through a digital maturity
audit. “Based on the audit, we can help clients internally build up any skills
they may lack and provide them with the
tools and technology they need to become fully transformed,” explained
Lategan. Another
thing that sets Enlight Strategic apart is that it provides clients with access
to platforms and tools that are otherwise unavailable in South Africa. Enlight
Strategic works with many technology suppliers to ensure that the best
solutions are selected to meet the needs of a specific project or
programme. People moves Jann Henderson joins Mickey Llew to boost
agency’s growth strategy Jann Henderson has been appointed as organic
search lead and Digital Analyst at performance marketing and SEO agency, Mickey Llew,
to head up and grow the organic search division. Her appointment is part of the
business’s drive to scale and build on its success as the agency of choice for
brands seeking an effective partner to implement organic search and content
strategies. “I’m excited to join Mickey Llew at a time when
the agency is growing its portfolio and its footprint, following its recent
move into Dynamic
Technologies House in Melrose,” Henderson said. “The agency
differentiates itself as an expert in organic
search, and I look forward to building on its already established
reputation, helping to create content strategies that deliver exceptional
results for our clients.” With Google certifications in Analytics, Google
Ads, social media and mobile marketing, as well as specialisations in SEO,
local internet marketing, mobile marketing, online marketing planning,
and technical data analysis, she places a strong emphasis on continuous
research and testing. While business success underpins her strong work ethic,
she centres her strategic approach on optimising campaign performance to
maximise clients’ return on investment. Keith Mafu promoted to head of sales: transit for JCDecaux SA Keith
Mafu has been promoted to head of sales: transit for JCDecaux SA. He joined the
JCDecaux in 2018 as a transit branding specialist and has over 10 years’
experience in sales and marketing. Mafu
is a success driven sales specialist and has worked, lived and travelled to
over 25 countries. His passion for different cultures and immersive
experiences inspire his interest in advertising and consumer behaviour. This
becomes apparent in his highly effective sales approach that has a proven track
record in lead generation, expanding sales outputs and customer engagement. “Keith
has been instrumental in growing our transit business over the last 18 months
and we have every confidence in his ability to take the next step into this
critical management position,” said Chris Hitchings, sales and marketing
director. Digitas Liquorice appoints Carla Worth as its deputy MD Digitas Liquorice has appointed Carla Worth as
its new deputy managing director.  Worth will steer the agency through its
next phase of growth while further entrenching digital innovation for brands. Since joining Digitas Liquorice as account
manager nine years ago, Worth has been instrumental in driving digital
transformation for one of the agency’s largest client, Unilever. “Carla came in with an energy that was
immediately felt across the agency. Her continuous depth of insight and
absolute passion for digital innovation has made her an invaluable member of
the senior team and partner to her clients,“ said Miles Murphy, chief executive
officer at Digitas Liquorice. “Carla has played a key role in driving business
growth for the agency and possesses key abilities as a future leader in
business.” Worth will manage the Cape Town client portfolio
and head up the Client Service team as well as continue to lead on accounts. Second term of office of the
B-BBEE ICT Sector Council to begin The inaugural 16 members of the ICT Council were
appointed by the Minister of Telecommunications & Postal Services on 23
September 2015 after being concurred by Cabinet. Now the second term of office
of the B-BBEE ICT Sector Council is set to begin on 2 October 2019. The
ICT Sector comprises four ICT industry sub-sectors: Broadcasting, Information
Technology, Telecommunications and Electronics. The
ICT Sector Council functions through five sub-committees; 1.      Executive Committee, which comprises of the chairpersons of all
the sub-committees, which is chaired by the Deputy Chairperson Councilor
Pheladi Gwangwa 2.      Communications and Stakeholder Engagement Committee chaired by
Councilor Petronella Linders 3.      Guidance and Monitoring Committee chaired
by Councilor Adrian Schofield 4.      Review and Amendment Committee chaired by
Councilor Sara-Jane Capazario 5.      Strategy, Governance, Risk & Funding
Committee chaired by Councilor Lucky Masilela The ICT Sector Council is
responsible for developing, reviewing and publishing the B-BBEE Amended ICT
Sector Code and monitoring its implementation. Business
moves Red
Cherry Interactive celebrates its silver anniversary with a fresh new
positioning After 25 years of building its reputation
as a media and production specialist with expertise in branded content,
activations, events experiential and digital campaigns, the award-winning Red
Cherry Interactive is repositioning itself as a full-service advertising agency,
with strategic, creative, media, digital, PR, event and activations divisions
offering above and below the line solutions. Red
Cherry is a level 1 B-BBEE female-owned company, with the entire leadership
team comprising dynamic women who are leaders in their fields. New
CEO, Pheladi Mphahlele, along with longstanding team members Jenna
Murray-Smith, Robbyn Burger, Faye Dawood and Aliki Frantzeskos, work actively
in the business, every day, to bring their first-hand knowledge of subjects
across the advertising, marketing, branding and creative disciplines to
clients. Mphahlele said the new positioning is the result
of the agency’s natural evolution, from a strictly media and production-oriented
offering starting in the 1990s to the holistic service provider it is today. Joburg based
digital agency to focus on utilising AI tech Boguslavsky & Co, a digital strategy agency, has evolved their service offering and capabilities to leveraging AI technologies through select technology partners along with offering data-driven customer insights utilising data visualisation tools for business intelligence purposes. ”As the digital landscape is evolving, so is our agency. We are focusing on bringing latest technology to the fore in our core service offering in order to help businesses understand their customers as part of of an overall digital strategy that results in growth, and customer acquisition,” commented Marianna Boguslavsky, digital strategist and founder of Boguslavsky & Co (above). Boguslavsky & Co is a niche
digital strategy agency based in South Africa with an international brands
portfolio – global reach has included UAE, UK, Singapore, US and
Slovenia. Dept named one of Adweek’s 100 fastest growing agencies Independent
international digital agency Dept has been named in the inaugural Adweek 100:
Fastest Growing Agencies list, 2019 for its 149% growth this past year. This
honour is presented to a wide range of successful agencies that cover 21
different disciplines. From full-service to performance, creative consultancies
to experiential, Adweek awards agencies based on their drive and dedication to
the industry and recognises those that they see as having “a very bright
future.” Dept
is a creativity, technology and data agency delivering end-to-end experiences
for brands and businesses worldwide. Making
moves PSA announces corporate rebrand to InfoQuest to help guide your
business growth InfoQuest, formerly known as Panel Services
Africa (PSA), has undergone a process of comprehensive corporate repositioning
to better suit its new, dynamic research offering as a full-research provider.
The rebranding, designed by visual 8, simultaneously reflects the
evolution of the mission of the business and its vision for the
future. Founded in 2005 as the first technology-enabled
business to support marketers and researchers, InfoQuest pioneered longitudinal
consumer panel market research services and market research in Africa across
multiple platforms, both traditional and non-traditional devices, including PC,
mobile, and face-to-face. ’From the very beginning, we have been able to generate reliable,
consistent and actionable information, quicker and at a fraction of the cost of
any alternatives, thereby helping businesses to make better marketing
decisions,’ said Claire Heckrath, managing director of InfoQuest. Following the rebranding from PSA to InfoQuest, the company now builds on its traditional services offering that includes research areas ranging from employee research through to campaign evaluations, and research methods such as New Product Sales Forecasting, predictive advertising and pack testing, panel operation, customer satisfaction surveys, hybrid methods (qualitative and quantitative) research support and brand health research. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za