At an intimate relaunch event, Provantage
Media Group (PMG) outlined the reasoning behind and the new direction of its
airports division, Airport Ads. “Our brands a lot more
sophisticated. We have to also reflect the spaces that we operate in. Most
airports around the world are being rebuilt, especially in Africa. These are
large investments that governments and parastatals make, they are sophisticated
environments so we wanted our brand to reflect that,” comments PMG founder
Jacques du Preez. He adds, “We’re also moving in the digital technology space, with digital, place-based networks and digital out of home. We’re launching Visionet and extending that network, which is large-format screens. So making the brand a lot more classy and sophisticated to reflect the spaces and audience we actually operate in.” PMG is currently extending Airport
Ads’ footprint across Africa and the Middle East, with new contracts having
been secured in airports in Dubai and Tunisia recently. Mzi Deliwe, deputy CEO of PMG and
head of Airport Ads explains, “This brand rejuvenation emphasises both
exclusivity and attention to detail – it speaks to our ability to offer
unlimited opportunities to brands of distinction, through both impressive
inventory and exceptional service. It also contributes additional sophistication
and global reach.” A new logo was unveiled, which draws
on elements of aircraft design, while the colour palette of gold, black and
white emphasises understated elegance, which is targeted at upper LSM consumers
and brands (the direction Airport Ads is now flying in). A new tagline, ‘Limitless Solutions’,
aligns with travel, but also with vision and the need to exceed client
expectations. Here are some pictures from the re-branding event: Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za