The winners have been named in this year’s African Digital Media Awards, at an awards ceremony in Johannesburg last night (11 September). South African media houses shone brightly, taking home the majority of the accolades. The awards took place on the first day of the two-day Digital Media Africa conference hosted by WAN-IFRA. The judges applauded the winners for compelling, eye-opening, and in-depth projects in all eight categories. “We’re really excited to see the success of African news startups like Daily Maverick and Food for Mzansi, alongside impressive projects from bigger players like the BBC and Media24,” said Vincent Peyrègne, CEO of WAN-IFRA, after meeting the winners. “These awards show the potential for digital news to be not only engaging and innovative, but also financially sustainable.” Here are the winners from the 2019 African Digital Media Awards: Best Data Visualisation – Dominion, Code for Africa, South Africa Runners-up: News24 elections: live data coverage, Media24, South Africa Digital News Start-up– Farmers for Change, Food for Mzansi, South Africa Runner-up: The Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh Xperience (#SMWX), The Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh Xperience, South Africa Best Digital Project to Engage Younger and / or Millennial Audiences – M&G 200 Young South Africans, Mail & Guardian, South Africa Runners-up: Netwerk24 Die Student, 24.com, South Africa Best Native Advertising / Branded Content Campaign – The Anthem Project, 24.com, The Anthem Project, South Africa Runner-up: I’m a First Grader, Media24, South Africa Best News Website or Mobile Service – Daily Maverick, Daily Maverick – South Africa Runner-up: Netwerk24.com, 24.com – South Africa Best Paid Content Strategy (incl. pay wall, membership or crowd funding models) – 2019 – Maverick Insider, Daily Maverick, South Africa Runner-up: Vrye Weekblad, Tiso Blackstar Group (Pty) Ltd, South Africa Best Use of Online Video (including VR) – Buried Truth: Unearthing the story of murdered farmworker Adam Pieterse, News24, Media24 – South Africa Runner-up: How a gifted young girl was kidnapped and murdered: The Siam Lee story, Tiso Blackstar Group (Pty) Ltd, South Africa Best in Social Media Engagement – BBC Media Action Arewa Facebook page, BBC Media Action – Nigeria Runner-up: Food for Mzansi, Farmers for Change, South Africa The winners of the African Digital Media Awards are automatically entered into the World Digital Media Awards competition, to be announced in Spain during the World News Media Congress on June 17-19, 2020. WAN-IFRA extended a special thanks to the judges, which included the following thought leaders from across the continent: The official hashtag for the conference is #DMAfrica19. Follow it on Twitter for more information from the event. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za