The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions and winners in the media industry. Having shared their insights and suggestions, three youngsters walked away as winners in the Next Generation Circle’s design thinking competition. Nokwanda Zondi,  Stan Mbatha and  Keanu Chuene took first, second and third place respectively. NGC is an initiative created by Plus 94 Research, in response to the plethora of issues faced by youth in South Africa, including high unemployment levels, increasing despondency and their apparent disconnect from the rest of society. It’s main aim is to give South African youth a voice and to include them in all decisions that affect them, while tapping into their resourcefulness for problem solving purposes. For the full story, click here. Global
measurement and data analytics company Nielsen has collaborated with ICT
specialist BCX to form part of the judging panel of the inaugural BCX Digital
Innovation Awards that are set to reward and recognise South African businesses
that are growing the economy through digital innovation. Commenting
on Nielsen’s participation, Digital Ad Ratings Manager in South Africa Noah Makholwa says it’s vital for
businesses to adopt new and existing technologies as they look to offer greater
value to clients and attract new markets. In terms of
the structure of the awards, Makholwa explains; “The judging criteria looks at
both incremental innovation and disruptive innovation. We’ll be looking for
SMEs and large enterprises that continually and consistently place emphasis on
making their current offerings more competitive, by utilising existing
technology to increase value to the customer within the existing market through
enhancements or simplifications. The awards will also recognise
outstanding use of new technology to create a new market for a new branch of
customers.” Looking to
the future, Makholwa adds; “As South Africa takes on the mandate of growth into
the 4th Industrial Revolution, businesses in the country face mounting pressure
to evolve. By taking on the challenge and innovating with new and existing
digital technologies, companies contribute to the economic strength, societal
well-being, and effective governance of our nation.” Entries to
the first ever BCX Digital Innovation Awards are open until 15th October 2019
with the awards set to take place in November 2019. Visit //www.bcx.co.za/digitalinnovationawards/
for more info or to enter. Working in cooperation with the United Nations Office for Partnerships and nonprofit PVBLIC Foundation, The One Club for Creativity has launched The One Show Sustainable Development Pencil to reward agencies and brands who utilise their talents and resources to create work which betters the world and contributes to securing a sustainable future for all. Announcement of the inaugural One Show
Sustainable Development Pencil was made at the recent SDG Media Summit 2019
conference at the UN, ahead of this year’s 74th session of the UN General
Assembly. The new SD Pencil will have three categories –
People, Planet and Systems – with subcategories based on the UN’s 17
Sustainable Development Goals. The
One Show Sustainable Development Pencil submissions must be in the form of a case study,
demonstrating and explaining the project’s impact, scalability, sustainability
and strategic partnerships. Work has to have appeared in market between 1
January 2016 and 28 February 2020 to be eligible. Entries to The One Show 2020 can be submitted
now at //www.oneshow.org, deadline
31 January 2020. At this year’s Primetime Emmy Awards, Game of Thrones won Best Drama, Chernobyl took home Best Limited Series and Fleabag was named Best Comedy. In the three main narrative categories, five series on Showmax (Game of Thrones, Chernobyl, Barry, A Very English Scandal and Succession) won eight awards; two Amazon comedies (Fleabag and The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel) won six awards and three Netflix shows (Ozark, Pose and When They See Us) won four awards. Netflix also won Competition Programme (RuPaul’s Drag Race) and TV Movie (Black Mirror: Bandersnatch), putting them at six awards overall for the night. For the full story, click here. John Brown South Africa (JBSA) took top honours in five major categories at the SA Publications Forum Awards. They were: The SA Publications Forum recognises excellence in the corporate publications industry with its annual awards ceremony. Samsung and KOO were announced as South Africa’s Overall Favourite Brands, winning the Grand Prix Awards in the Business and Consumer sectors respectively at this year’s Sunday Times Top Brands Survey. Eben Gewers, head of advertising sales at Tiso Blackstar says, “With twenty-one years of the Sunday Times Top Brands Survey under the belt, we’re proud of the contribution the results make in assisting brand strategists and marketers in refining their approach to the market.  Understanding how consumers perceive a brand can have significant impact in directing ad campaigns and messaging to optimise effectiveness, as well as resource and budget efficiencies.” For the full list of winners, click here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za