The 11th annual MOST Awards continued its proud tradition of celebrating excellence in the media industry. A record number of respondents delivered their votes via the online survey this year. MOST Awards founder, Sandra Gordon At a breathtaking awards evening, held at The Wanderers Club in Illovo, the best of the best were recognised and awarded by their peers. It was a dual win for AdColony, who scooped the coveted Media Owner of the Year accolade as well as being named the Digital category winner, for the second year in a row. This media owner has built a significant gap between itself and its competitors from a MOST Awards perspective. Media24 must be commended for its admirable performance in this year’s MOST Awards, with Media24 Lifestyle and Ads24 placing second and third respectively in the overall Media Owner of the Year rankings. Both also came out top in their categories (magazines and newspapers respectively) and Ads24 made it a double by winning the Media Owner Marketing Services Award as well. Unsurprisingly, The MediaShop (Johannesburg) came out on top once again, its seventh overall win in 10 years. In 2019 it saw a dual win, picking up the Media Agency of the Year title and topping the Full Service Media Agency rankings. What was surprising was the dominance of Park Advertising, which picked up not only the top spot, but second and third places too, with The MediaShop (Cape Town) and Meta Media (Johannesburg) respectively. 2019 was the year of women in the MOST Awards, with six of the seven individual awards being won by them. Google’s agency relationship manager in South Africa, Kerri Prissman, was named this year’s Media Owner Rising Star, while DStv Media Sales’ CEO Fahmeeda Cassim-Surtee is the Media Owner Legend Award winner. On the agency side, OMD’s Julio Rodrigues won the Media Agency Rising Star Award, and Dentsu Aegis Network’s Dawn Rowlands is worthy the winner of the Media Agency Legend Award. For her selfless contributions to media research, Brenda Wortley was awarded the Shepherd Award. And in a first for the MOST Awards, there was a joint winner of the Bell Award. Clare O’Neil and Jennifer Daniel shared the accolade. This year’s MOST Awards categories saw many interesting moves, with some companies retaining their top spot from last year, some new winners, and some surprises. Here are the various category winners: Radio – Primedia Broadcasting 2nd – Mediamark 3rd – United Stations Television – e.tv 2nd – DStv Media Sales 3rd – Viacom Cinema – Ster-Kinekor Sales 2nd – Cinevation Popcorn Out-of-home – Relativ Media 2nd – Primedia Outdoor 3rd – Wideopen Platform Newspapers – Ads24 2nd – Tiso Blackstar Media 3rd – The Citizen Magazines – Media24 Lifestyle 2nd – Caxton Magazines Digital – AdColony 2nd – Google 3rd – The SpaceStation Media Sales Consultants – Ad Dynamo 2nd – Vicinity Media Media Owner Lamb – Exponential Media 2nd – Mediamark (digital) 3rd – Massiv Media (OOH) Media Owner Marketing Services – Ads24 2nd – Mediamark 3rd – DStv Media Sales Media agencies Media Agency Lamb – Initiative Media (Cape Town) 2nd – FCB Africa 3rd – Carat (Cape Town) Specialist Media Agency – Alphabet Soup 2nd – Posterscope 3rd – TMI Media Full Service Media Agency – The MediaShop (Johannesburg) 2nd – The MediaShop (Cape Town) 3rd – Meta Media (Johannesburg) Sandra Gordon and Tiso Blackstar Group MD, Andy Gill Check back to The Media Online on Wednesday morning for more news, photographs and videos from #MOSTAwards2019 Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za