According to World Health Organisation, South Africa has the
fourth highest rate of femicide out of 
183 countries.58% of women worldwide are killed by someone they know. In South Africa, a woman is killed every three hours. Stats like these have left many women feeling more vulnerable and asking the question #AmInext? #AmInext to be violated? #AmInext to be kidnapped? #AmInext to be raped, or even murdered? Women are at risk and the conversation around what we can do to create a safer society for women needs to be had. This is why Choma Magazine, a project by HIVSA, launched the #DoneWithSilence social media campaign on the 16th of June 2019. The #DoneWithSilence campaign is all about
starting conversations and encouraging everyone to speak up about the change
they would like to see around them. The campaign aims to encourage everyone who
has been a victim or affected by any social ill, particularly gender
inequality, to stand up for themselves, or others, and speak out by simply
making a social media post saying what they are done being silent about. The importance of starting, and also
normalising, these conversations is to encourage everyone – regardless of
gender – to help find solutions. The campaign is based on the idea that the
more we speak out about social ills that affect us like gender-based violence,
for example, the more we encourage others to use their voices and actively
fight together towards a common goal. As seen with all the headlines about the heinous
crimes that affected many South Africans in the past few weeks, it is important
for users to be aware that being part of the #DoneWithSilence campaign means
they’re joining other people to make as much noise as possible and to influence
the government to enforce change. This campaign also gives victims and their
affected loved ones a safe space. In addition to everyone who has already
contributed to the #DoneWithSilence conversation by making their posts, a few
personalities also came forward to lend their voice by using their influence on
their social media platforms about the change they wanted to see. These media personalities
include media personality Kim Jayde, nurse Angela Motsusi, influential doctor
Dr. Sindi Van Zyl, author Tivania Moodley, and influencer Mi’Chal Naidoo. To be part of the #DoneWithSilence campaign and
conversation, simply create a post with your message on any
of your social platforms, tag Choma
Magazine on Facebook, Twitter (@chomamag) and Instagram (@choma_mag)
and include the hashtag #DoneWithSilence. Not only will you be contributing towards making the change you’d like to see in the world, but it might empower the next person who is afraid of sharing their story to speak up, and probably get the help that they need. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za