It takes something special to
win one of the individual awards (Rising Stars, Legends, Bell Award, Shepherd
Award) at the MOST Awards, as well as to be named the Media Owner of the Year
and the Media Agency of the Year. These winners come with a lot
of experience, wisdom, advice, lessons, and insights. The Media Online sat down
exclusively with the winners after the awards ceremony to pick their brains on
their field of expertise, and to find out what winning a MOST Award means to
them. Jennifer
Daniel, regional director for Africa and Asia Pacific at Telmar. Co-winner of
the 2019 MOST Awards Bell Award “The biggest challenge to media
research in Africa is that there are no joint industry committees (JICs)
outside of South Africa and Kenya. Basically, people need to get together and
start forming JICs because that is the only way to then get the research going
in a country. And we’ve seen where there is research, the GDP goes up and the
whole country grows.” Clare
O’Neil, strategic consultant at Viacom Commercial. Co-winner of the 2019 MOST
Awards Bell Award “The big thing is that content
is moving across platforms. Whether content lives in a linear broadcast form or
in non-linear video on demand, subscription video on demand, onto YouTube, onto
cellphone, onto tablet, it’s really about understanding how content is on the
move and what to do with new distribution platforms. But content is king, and
it always will be.” Brenda
Wortley, consultant and director at 3M3A. Winner of the 2019 MOST Awards
Shepherd Award “What is TV these days? It’s
certainly not what you see on one screen in your living room. It’s on every
device, and what is TV content has changed … The definition of what we’re
measuring and what we call these things has changed. You know, what is radio,
what is podcast? The lines are all blurring and the way we measure them has to
blur and we haven’t done that.” “We have to start at the
beginning of what we define TV and radio listening to be, what is the scope of
TV, what is the scope of radio, and then figure out the ways to measure it.” Fahmeeda
Cassim-Surtee, CEO of DStv Media Sales. Winner of the 2019 MOST Awards Media
Owner Legend Award. Speaking on a recent trip to
India with the DStv Media Sales management team – “We wanted to go to silicon
valley of India, to be able to go and see all the technology giants, to see how
AI is disrupting the advertising world, and look at things that are linked to
data and measurement and where the future is going to be … I came back
understanding what supreme customer service is.” Dawn
Rowlands, CEO of Dentsu Africa. Winner of the 2019 MOST Awards Media Agency
Legend Award. “The media environment in South
Africa is more restrictive. There are a lot more rules … In Africa there’s more
wider, open spaces, media owners are a lot more collaborative … Everyone’s in a
more entrepreneurially-minded space. Partnerships are a lot easier to foster,
certainly bringing new and interesting technology to a client’s business is a
lot easier … Generally speaking, in South Africa people are a lot more
protective of their turf, and I think that that’s stifled diversity and it’s
certainly stifled innovation.” Julio
Rodrigues, business unit director for Standard Bank at OMD. Winner of the 2019
MOST Awards Media Agency Rising Star Award. “In an industry where people
are almost seen as resources that can be just chucked away and find new ways to
replace them, we need to reinforce the fact that people are our business.
Without the people, we don’t have a business.” “There’s a big movement with
some clients taking agency staff in-house. 
Our agency landscape, you’re seeing a bit of brain drain. If we’re not
losing them to international markets we’re losing them to clients … And it’s
putting strain on the senior leadership team.” Kgaugelo
Maphai, MD of The MediaShop Johannesburg. Winners of the 2019 MOST Awards Full
Service Agency category and the Media Agency of the Year Award. “An important element is
diversity in the workforce. Clients and marketers are looking for deeper
insights from us, and diversity is not a race thing. It’s diversity in terms of
gender, age and inclusivity is becoming a big thing in agencies.” “The type of people that are
being employed in agencies, we need to start looking at a different skillset,
very analytical people. As the years go by this will become quite an integral
part. But also our offering as agencies. We’re highly commoditised, so how are
we differentiating ourselves, and that’s the challenge to every agency, that we
are all going through. What we will look like in the next three to five years.” Andrew Kramer, MD of AdColony South Africa. Winners of the 2019 MOST Awards Media Owners of the Year Award. “We’re incredibly customer centric,
that’s the starting point. We’re passionate about servicing small and big
clients, because small clients become big clients, and we treat everyone’s ad
rand with equal passion and importance.” “There’s a maturity coming into
digital. With third party verification becoming more the norm, things like
viewability when you talk about video and viewing fraud are becoming critical.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za