Current group sales and marketing director for Sub-Saharan Africa at JCDecaux, Adelaide McKelvey will be departing the out of home giant in June. McKelvey is recognised as one of the best operators in the business and has made many friends in the media industry. She started at Continental Outdoor Media as sales and marketing director in mid-1997, before being appointed as managing director for the rest of Africa in mid-2011. Once Continental Outdoor Media was incorporated into JCDecaux in 2015, McKelvey was appointed into her current position at the beginning of 2016, and her knowledge and experience ensured a smooth entrance into the local market for the global business. “Adelaide has been a key asset to the company as we have navigated the transition from Continental Outdoor to JCDecaux over the last three years. Her insights across all markets, extensive relationships, drive, determination and creativity have been invaluable. I wish her every success in her new commendable venture and am looking forward to collaborating for many years to come,” says Mark Cooper, CEO JCDecaux Africa. McKelvey will be moving into a new chapter of her life, which will be focused on “giving back and doing work with purpose”. She is a firm believer in the concept of Shared Value, which she is looking to incorporate into her work. “I would like to give warm thanks to a lady of integrity who has been pivotal in shifting the vision of our African journey. Adelaide is a great professional and has been an important member of our Executive Committee. We have enjoyed a very good relationship while often travelling together throughout our markets, and reviewing our sales and marketing strategies. “I wish her the best she deserves in her new venture, and with Shared Value being at the core of JCDecaux’s business model, I’m confident we’ll benefit from her experience and wisdom under a new form,” comments Jean Sébastien Decaux, CEO, Southern Europe, Belgium and Luxembourg, Africa and Israel of JCDecaux. McKelvey was named as the MOST Awards Media Owner Legend in 2014, commended for her excellent negotiation skills and her ability to motivate teams to achieve success. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za