A new SABC board has been appointed the eight members of which will take up their positions immediately. “Viewed collectively, the board of the SABC is composed of people who possess qualifications, skills, experience and expertise across a broad spectrum of relevant fields including but not limited to governance and business practice, law, broadcasting policy and regulation, journalism and communications amongst others,” the Presidency said in a statement. President Cyril Ramaphosa wished the new board members well in their efforts to secure the sustainability of the South African Broadcasting Corporation as an important component of national life and of the deepening of democratic engagement in the country. “The new members of the Board will serve the unexpired term of office of the members who resigned from the SABC Board, which will expire on 15 October 2022,” the Presidency said on Friday. Democratic Alliance shadow minister of communications, Phumzile van Damme, said the president had “succumbed to the pressures of the Democratic Alliance (DA) and civil society” to appoint the board. Despite the fact the ANC had not considered any candidates proposed by opposition parties, Van Damme said the DA hoped the appointments would “bring stability to the embattled public broadcaster which has been functioning with an inquorate board for the past few months”. Nevertheless, Van Damme said the party remained opposed to the appointment of Professor Sathasivan Cooper. “There are serious allegations hanging over his head and we implore the rest of the board to not be intimidated by him and remain steadfast in its goals,” Van Damme said. • Mary Papayya • Jasmina Patel • Dr Marcia Socikwa; • Mamodupi Mohlala-Mulaudzi • Bernedette Muthien • Advocate Benjamin Motshedi Lekalakala • Professor Sathasivan Cooper • David Maimela. The President designated Mamodupi Mohlala-Mulaudzi as Deputy Chairperson of the SABC Board. Van Damme also drew attention to the fact that  Unisa’s Facilities vice principal, Dr. Marcia Socikwa, had been suspended following protests from the National Health, Education and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu). “We are still waiting on the internal report on claims of racism, and the appointment of the son of Transport Minister, Blade Nzimande, without following proper procedure. If the report does not exonerate her, she must resign with immediate effect,” she said. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za