Jacaranda FM Good Morning Angels fundraisers leave Cape Town for Pretoria. Hectic On 3 bids farewell to Emmiraan Swartz. General Electric appoints Eric Amoussouga as GE Francophone Africa CEO. CARmag.co.za evolves into a fully multi-function automotive platform. IRR launches online platform, the Daily Friend. Talon launches international network and connected traveller brands. Canon Central and North Africa partners with Yaba College of Technology in Nigeria. Pernod Ricard launches its 2030 Sustainability & Responsibility Roadmap. Digital School of Marketing launch digital PR course. Launching the News Organisations Safety Self-Assessment. Friends of Design accepting Early Bird Applications for 2020 This week’s BIG move: Jacaranda FM Good Morning Angels fundraisers leave Cape Town for Pretoria Three mountain bike enthusiasts have set off from Cape Town on a ride to Pretoria with the aim of raising R1 million for Jacaranda FM’s Good Morning Angels. The Mile for a Million Tour will see them tackling a gruelling route of about 1 700 km. Hendrik Steytler, Deon Brink and Ivor Potgieter, will visit various towns along the way to explore South Africa in all its beauty and will eventually end their extraordinary journey at Jacaranda FM & Tracker’s Off the Beat ‘n Track – a family fun day of mountain biking and music that will be taking place at The Big Red Barn, Irene, on the 13 April. Their journey started at the Commodore Hotel at the V & A Waterfront on Wednesday morning and will run through Wellington, Ceres, Kouebokkeveld, Houdenbek Farm, Tankwa Padstal, Tankwa River Lodge, Sutherland, Fraserburg, Carnavorn, Vosburg Town, Britstown, Potfontein, Petrusville, Van Der Kloof Dam, Luckhof, Koffiefontein, Petrusburg, Dealsville, Bultfontein, Wesselbron, Bothaville, Vredefort, Parys, Sandton and finally, The Big Red Barn in Irene. Listeners and companies are invited to support the three cyclists on their 11-day trek, by sponsoring kilometres at R500 each. All funds raised will go towards vulnerable people and worthy causes through the Good Morning Angels Fund NPC. To donate: Jacaranda FM’s Good Morning Angels, featured on the station’s Breakfast with Martin Bester, has been on air for over a decade and has changed thousands of lives to date. People moves Hectic On 3 bids farewell to Emmiraan Swartz After almost a year on the popular tween show, the Hectic On 3 team, Okuhle Media and SABC 3 have bid farewell to Emmiraan Swartz as he moves on to the next chapter of his career. His last live show was on Friday. Swartz is a progressing multi-media broadcaster, with a few years of campus radio experience and is currently a media studies student at the University of Cape Town. “Emmiraan added his amazing flair and talent to the show. He has continued to grow in this industry and it is beautiful to watch him soar. We are looking forward to collaborating and growing with him as custom at Okuhle,” said Siyanda Manzini, Hectic On 3 producer. Swartz steps down from the show with much gratitude to the viewers and all associated with the show which he believes offered him an opportunity that played an integral part in his career progression. As of Monday, 1 April 2019, Hectic On 3 went live on SABC3 weekdays at 16h00. General Electric appoints Eric Amoussouga as GE Francophone Africa CEO General Electric has announced the appointment of Eric Amoussouga as the chief executive officer for Francophone Africa. In this position, he will play a pivotal role in steering the next phase of strategy and growth for GE in Francophone African markets. Commenting on the appointment, Farid Fezoua, President and CEO, GE Africa, reiterated GE’s commitment to work together with government and private sector order to develop public private partnerships and sustainable outcome-based solutions. Business moves CARmag.co.za evolves into a fully multi-function automotive platform CAR magazine, a South African heritage brand, established over 60 years ago, has now evolved its online platform, CARmag.co.za. CAR is Southern Africa’s leading multimedia automotive consumer brand and it’s growing even further by partnering with the industry to meet South Africa’s motoring demands. The aim is to make the new CARmag platform the largest and most trusted motoring product of its kind. Together Caxton, CAR magazine and other key players have come together, shared resources and knowledge to offer dealers affordable solutions and offers consumers informative options while accepting the responsibility to mend the disruption that has been caused in the market. By adding the resources of Caxton Automotive to the strong CAR magazine brand, the new CARmag.co.za website will consist of a unique array of offerings to its users. This includes professional editorial content produced by the CAR magazine expert journalists and vehicle specialists, generic new car module offerings, special deals on new and used vehicles and dealership demo modules. IRR launches online platform, the Daily Friend The Institute of Race Relations (IRR) has launched its own online platform, the Daily Friend, to promote classical liberalism – individual rights, free markets, the right to own property, freedom from unnecessary government and bureaucratic interference, tolerance and the right to free expression. “We will bring you the best pro-liberty columnists, daily news we think is particularly interesting, and sensible opinion,” said editor in chief, Sara Gon. “Every day you will be able to read some of the best analysis on South Africa – on politics, the economy, and what the future holds for you and your family. ‘This site is an important new tool in the battle of ideas the outcome of which will determine whether South Africa reaches its potential as a free, prosperous, and open society.’ Talon launches international network and connected traveller brands Talon has launched a new global OOH network, Plexus, in response to its own growth and the changing global landscape of out of home media. The network links 20 offices with influence across 75+ markets and will be able to offer extended global solutions for clients. Plexus, the Smarter Global OOH Network, was created in response to the changing OOH landscape affecting cities, populations and digital environments. The network’s central planning team is based in London as a centre of OOH excellence, headed by managing partner at Talon, Adrian Skelton. Latitude, a dedicated resource for engaging the connected traveller, is embedded within the Plexus team, led by International client service director Tom Perrett. The team will work with clients to provide better solutions for reaching people as they move across the globe and challenge the use of conventional airport media in one of OOH’s most exciting spaces. Canon Central and North Africa partners with Yaba College of Technology in Nigeria Canon will be holding print training for students at Yaba College of Technology, Nigeria’s first higher institution to have established a Centre for Entrepreneurship Development. The partnership with Yabatech is an extension of Canon’s Miraisha Sustainability Programme. The programme aims to improve the knowledge of digital printing and related technical skills of 80 Nigerian students specialising in this sector. The first activity to be run under this partnership is speciality training that will last one week and will be conducted by a professional print manager from Canon. The theme of this training will be colour management and will alternate between practical and theoretical courses. Making moves Pernod Ricard launches its 2030 Sustainability & Responsibility Roadmap Pernod Ricard has launched its 2030 Sustainability & Responsibility roadmap as part of the Group’s strategic plan Transform & Accelerate. This roadmap sets out eight ambitious and concrete 2030 targets supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The Group is taking bold next steps in addressing both environmental topics, to preserve the terroirs its products come from, and social responsibility, in particular by accelerating the fight against alcohol misuse. Last September, during the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit 2018 at the UN Headquarters in New York, Pernod Ricard was the only Wine & Spirits company to be recognised as a Global Compact LEAD company, demonstrating its ongoing commitment to the Ten Principles and to the 17 UN SDGs. Digital School of Marketing launch digital PR course In 2019, businesses will be spending more on content marketing than ever before. As public relations is an essential part of the content marketing mix, the Digital School of Marketing (DSM) has just launched their online Digital PR course which will teach those wanting to get into a career in PR or those who have small businesses how to market their businesses through PR. The course holds accreditation from both MICT SETA and is endorsed by the IAB which means that once completed the qualification will give anyone the upper hand in this competitive digital world. Launching the News Organisations Safety Self-Assessment The News Organisations Safety Self-Assessment is a new resource that will help news outlets to review and improve their current safety practices and protocols. The Self-Assessment comprises a brief set of key questions and guideline notes that should prompt a constructive conversation around safety best practices and encourage practical and effective ways to advance such practices. This resource is a collaboration between the ACOS Alliance, the Committee to Protect Journalists, the Dart Center for Journalism & Trauma, Free Press Unlimited, Frontline Freelance Register, the International Federation of Journalists, International News Safety Institute, International Media Support, International Press Institute, the International Women’s Media Foundation, and WAN-IFRA, the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers. The resource pays special attention to gender issues, mental health care, digital security needs and working with freelancers and fixers, aspects which are often neglected in organisational policy and protocols. The Self-Assessment includes links to relevant articles, reports, guides, and other existing resources, as well as a basic glossary. The development of this resource was made possible with the generous support of the MacArthur Foundation and the Open Society Foundations. For the Diary Nfinity Group to host Pepe Marais Each month the Nfinity Group, through its #PowerHour initiative, hosts entrepreneurs that have excelled in their specific fields of industry. They are invited to share their business and life lessons with Nfinity’s clients, media and creative agencies and partners in the advertising industry. This month on the 10 April, the Group will host Pepe Marais, founding partner and group chief creative officer of Joe Public United, currently ranked as the number one creative agency on the African continent. Marais has been the recipient of numerous local and international industry awards and was ranked as the number one creative leader by the Loerie Awards in 2018. He was also voted by marketers as the ‘Most Admired Industry Professional’ in South Africa. The Nfinity Group has grown exponentially in the last couple of years and the entrepreneurs that run their individual businesses under the Nfinity banner are always keen to learn and improve their skills, and to share these powerful knowledge sessions with their clients. It’s for these reasons that the Group hosts successful entrepreneurs like Pepe at its #PowerHour get-togethers, and this edition is sure to be another highlight for guests. For information on the 10th April #PowerHour session please contact linda@nfinity.co.za Friends of Design accepting Early Bird Applications for 2020 So you’ve made up your mind: the creative world is where you want to be, and Friends of Design Academy of the Digital Arts is going to get you there. You likely already know that our state-of-the-art academy offers small, hands-on creative classes for all our acclaimed full-time courses, to give all students the time and attention they need to hone their skills. But these small classes also mean there are extremely limited spots available – and with Friends of Design receiving hundreds of applications each year, these seats fill up fast. So why not get ahead of the curve and maximise your chances of securing your spot for 2020? We’re now accepting enrolments for all our 2020 full-time courses – and we’ve got some great offers for our early bird students. Some more great news for all students: Friends of Design’s fees will not be increasing in 2020! For more details, click here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za