Entries close 16 April for SA SundanceTV Shorts Competition. Entries for Appy Awards close 5 April. Winners of the WAN-IFRA European Digital Media Awards. Winners of the 2019 Pan African Re/Insurance Journalism Awards honoured. Ogilvy’s Social.Lab ranked third most effective specialist and digital agency in the world. Africa Netpreneur Prize open for applications. Calling all South African filmmakers; entries for the second SundanceTV Shorts Competition close on Tuesday, 16 April so be sure you’re in with a chance to take your short all the way to an event during Sundance Film Festival: London and see it premiere internationally on SundanceTV. Log on to www.sundancetvshorts.com for all the details and to watch last year’s prize-winners, including Capetonian Ian Morgan’s Good Mourning. Local entries can be submitted at www.sundancetvshorts.com by the producer or director, who must provide proof of SA residency. Films should be no longer than 15 minutes, must be delivered with English subtitles if English is not the spoken language and need to meet SundanceTV’s official rules and technical requirements, available on the website. Films will be judged on a number of criteria, including creativity, entertainment value, original storytelling and production values, with the winner to be announced in May. The Appy Awards are all about acknowledging creativity and excellence in app design. Entries for this year’s competition close on 5 April. This year a new group of categories, In-App Campaigns was added, including: Best In-App Campaign: B2C Best In-App Campaign: B2B Best App Download Campaign Best Use of Smart Speaker App Best Use of Geo-Location Best Use of E-Commerce Best Use of Video Advertising Best Use of Mobile Social Media Campaign Best Mobile Rich Media Best App Sponsorship This new category group is for advertisers that use apps as a key element of their marketing campaigns. Entrants in these categories will be judged by their creativity and success in leveraging mobile’s unique opportunities. To find out more, click here, and to enter, click here. The winners of the WAN-IFRA’s European Digital Media Awards were announced at the end of the first day of the Digital Media Europe Conference in Vienna. WAN-IFRA’s The awards provide news publishers with regular showcases for best-practice innovation in digital publishing worldwide. The winners of the 12th annual European Digital Media Awards are: Best News Website or Mobile Service
FAZ Discover – Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Germany Best in Lifestyle, Sports, Entertainment Website or Mobile Services The Norway Sports Live Streaming service – Amedia, Norway Best in Social Media Engagement World Cup Twin – VG, Norway Best Data Visualisation
How Amazon became the world’s most valuable retailer – The Guardian, UK Best Digital News Start-up
24sata native studio – 24Sata, Croatia Best Marketing Campaign for News Brand
Berxit – VG, Norway Best Paid Content Strategy
The Guardian – membership – Guardian News & Media Best Use of Online Video
Explore Lyon – Euronews Best Digital Project to Engage Younger and/or Millennial Audiences
Fake or For Real – Guardian News & Media Best Native Advertising / Branded Content Campaign
Mission Vision – Namdalsavisa, Norway Leading Pan African Reinsurance firm, Continental Reinsurance Plc has announced the winners of the 2019 Pan African Re/Insurance Journalism Awards at its 6th annual CEO Summit in Mauritius. Patrick Alushula, a Kenyan Business Journalist from Nation Media Group bagged the Overall Award, Pan African Journalist of the Year. His article titled ‘Despite low uptake, funeral cover can’t be buried away’ also emerged the Best Re/Insurance Print Article [English]. Katya Stead, a South African Journalist who writes for Commercial Risk Africa won the Best Re/Insurance Online Article award [English], with her article ‘Banking the change: How insurers in banking will change insurance too. For the French category, Sara Bar-rhout, Economie Entreprises, Morocco emerged the winner for the Best Re/Insurance French Article award, with her article, titled TRC et RCD, Jackpot Du Secteur?. This year’s awards received a total of 66 entries (58 English & 6 French) from 14 African countries. The performance of Ogilvy’s Social.Lab and its social media offerings have received global recognition, with the naming of founding agency and headquarters Ogilvy Social.Lab Brussels as the third most effective Specialist and Digital Agency in the World at the 2019 WARC Awards. Ogilvy Social.Lab recently opened in South Africa and now has a presence in 15 locations across four continents. The South African team led by Christophe Chantraine and composed of 18 digital media experts is active both in Johannesburg and Cape Town. Social.Lab aims to unlock the full potential of social media by developing integrated dynamic content strategies that make brands, sales and customer value grow. Our conviction is that Social has a transformative power for business when you combine creative content, and sophisticated distribution with seamless measurement solutions. The WARC awards programme aims to search for next-generation marketing effectiveness. The awards go to agencies who are developing and mastering new techniques to deliver business results for clients. The application process for the Africa Netpreneur Prize Initiative (ANPI) is now officially open to African entrepreneurs from all sectors, age groups, and countries in Africa. The ANPI is a prize competition founded by the Jack Ma Foundation that will award $10 million and recognise 100 African entrepreneurs over the next 10 years. The Prize aims to support and inspire the next generation of entrepreneurs who are building a more sustainable and inclusive economy for the future. Every year, 10 finalists will be selected to compete in a finale pitch competition that will be broadcast across the continent. All 10 finalists will gain access to the Netpreneur community of African business leaders to leverage the community’s shared expertise, best practice and resources. Alibaba Group Executive Chairman Jack Ma created the prize after he made his first trip to Africa in July 2017 and was inspired by the energy and entrepreneurial potential of the young people he met. The Prize is open to entrepreneurs from all industries, and he especially encouraged those running small businesses, those making a difference in their local communities and female entrepreneurs to apply. Click here for a video of Jack calling for applications, and to read more about the prize visit netpreneur.africa. The winners for the 2019 Bookmark Awards have been announced! This year, the 11th annual awards, hosted at The Forum, Bryanston, encompassed a record-breaking 76 categories, with over 750 entries. 68 judges assessed the entries based on stringent, results-based criteria, culminating in 142 winners from across the South African digital landscape. The Bookmarks are a celebration of young, emerging talent in the digital industry. Leon Mwandiringa of Clockwork walked away with the Best Digital Youngster award, while Raphael Janan Kuppasamy and Jenny Groenewald from Vega School were honoured as the best digital students. Read the full story on The Media Online. The Awards Wrap is published every Tuesday in our newsletter. Please send all awards news to michael@wagthedog.co.za. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za