The Publisher Research Council (PRC) has named a new chief executive officer to lead the industry body. The person selected for the role is Josephine Buys. Buys was most recently the inaugural CEO of the Interactive Advertising Bureau of South Africa (IAB SA), and has had a diverse career in publishing and marketing. In a statement, the industry body said, “The PRC has been conducting pioneering studies in the publishing space since 2016. Josephine will leverage the research and relationships built to date, to drive the company into a new phase of industry involvement, while Peter Langschmidt will continue to focus on the technical aspects of research to ensure it is as accurate a reflection of the reader universe as possible.” It added, “This appointment marks an exciting increase in resources, and an intention to add widespread value to the industry at large. A seasoned marketing and media professional, Josephine is the ideal candidate for the role.” Commenting on her appointment, said the PRC library was a “rich repository of information that marketers, advertisers and media agencies can benefit from and I look forward to unlocking the value of our reading platforms, being consumed and trusted in a quality environment, to prove that reading is one of the most effective platforms to deliver a significant Return on Investment (ROI)”. She added, “I have always been passionate about reading, whatever the channel. In my new capacity as CEO of the Publisher Research Council, I will be a champion of the written word in all forms.” Executive headhunter, Maha Deeb, who introduced Josephine to the PRC said the brief was to identify someone who would be “the voice of the PRC and an ambassador for the power of reading and recall. Media and communications thought leaders and senior executives who I spoke to about Josephine attested to her credibility, passion and drive”. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za