The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, accounts and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: New radio specialist agency, Torque Media, launches in SA A new full-service radio specialist agency focusing on 360-degree solutions, was recently launched in Johannesburg. Torque Media will provide services for companies nationwide in a variety of areas including radio strategy, radio placement/buying, creative, production, media sales, sales training and more. The company was founded by Rachelle Jaques and
includes a team of sales and marketing professionals with backgrounds across
the full spectrum of radio including commercial, community and campus radio in
South Africa, Africa and internationally. The team at Torque Media has over 80 years of
collective radio experience within the industry. They are: Rachelle Jaques, who has over 21 years’ experience
and has a long-time passion for the media sector. Her background includes
radio, print and television. Rachelle was employed at The Media Connection, a community
radio sales house, for the better part of 19 years and was greatly involved in
the growth and profitability of the sector. Jenni Critchfield, who has over 28 years’ radio
sales and media management experience spending most of her career at Primedia
Broadcasting in various capacities. She was also the divisional CEO at Cinemark
for a few years and was managing director – Africa for an international
company, NRS Media, from 2014 – 2016. Pregs Naidoo has over 22 years’ radio and media
experience, most of her years being spent in commercial radio at Primedia
Broadcasting as the operations manager. He recently spent five years working
for international company NRS Media as a senior project manager, managing the
operational side of both local and global new business programmes for multiple
clients across the board. Jen McLean has been in the media industry for 15
years and has a passion for creative radio and developing campaigns for clients
that are both memorable and engaging. She fell in love with campus radio CAMPUS
radio while still studying at TUKS and has since worked on both the agency and
media owner side. “We’re beyond excited to utilise our collective
background experience across the spectrum of radio in South Africa and to
really optimise results for our clients” said founder Jaques. “As a team we
truly understand every facet of radio and we are available to work closely with
our clients to optimise results for their brands. We truly understand the South
African and African consumer and how best to reach your market.” For more information on Torque Media please contact: Rachelle Jaques at rachelle@torquemedia.co.za/082 4983 157. People moves Deputy comms minister Pinky Kekana given oversight of SABC The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) board and management have met with the deputy minister of communications and digital technologies, Pinky Kekana, who has been delegated oversight of the SABC. The purpose of the meeting was to obtain a progress
update on various matters, with a key focus on the pre-conditions of funding,
status of the implementation of the turnaround plan, and the expenditure of the
bailout that was granted in October 2019. The board provided a detailed
breakdown and report of the expenditure to date. This meeting was critical to provide the deputy minister
with feedback on the bailout’s expenditure in line with the priorities outlined
by National Treasury, the department of communications and digital technologies,
Government Technical Advisory Centre (GTAC), and the SABC Board. These
priorities include settling of outstanding debts, investment in technology,
maintenance of buildings, and investment in local content. The SABC said Kekana was satisfied with the
progress made and reporting thus far, with some of the highlights being that
there has been significant progress made on the turnaround plan, and delivering
in accordance with the commitments made. DDB
South Africa enters new era with appointment of Mel Daniels Melissa (Mel) Daniels has been appointed
CEO of DDB South Africa. Previously the chief of staff at TBWA\ South Africa,
she will step into the role officially from the end of this month, following a
three month hand-over period with Emmet O’Hanlon. “I am humbled to have the opportunity
to lead this iconic advertising agency and incredibly proud to join the amazing
team at DDB SA,” said Daniels. Daniels said she was looking
forward to building on the agency’s legacy
of effectiveness and creativity. “As someone with a solid background in
digital, I believe now more than ever advertising agencies need to create work
that is meaningful and effective – aligned to our clients’ business objectives
and core challenges – enabled by our tools; technology; data practice and
innovation,” she says. “The company has a firm foundation in performance
marketing, a great team and innovative tools andpartnerships and I look forward to seeing us take
this to the next level.” Current CEO of DDB South Africa and managing director,
Sub Saharan Africa, Emmet O’ Hanlon, who made the decision to leave the agency,
has been working closely with Daniels for
the past three months to ensure a seamless transition and is confident
in her ability to take the agency forward. More moves at Independent Media On the back of several new editorial
appointments, Independent Media has announced that Jade Otto is the new editor
of Weekend Argus [Saturday] while its sister company, Content Nation Media,
revealed the appointment of Nontando Mposo as the new editor in chief of
Glamour magazine, following the departure of Ayanda Sizani last month. Otto joined Independent Media as an intern at the
Cape Argus more than a decade ago. She progressively moved through the newsroom,
holding several positions at the Cape Argus including that of news editor,
followed by assistant editor of the publication in 2016. In July 2018, she
stepped in as acting editor of Weekend Argus Saturday with the aim of growing
the brand, which she has succeeded in doing. Independent Media fashion and beauty editor,
Nontando Mposo, has joined Content Nation Media as Glamour magazine’s editor in
chief. As the brand custodian, she will be tasked with bringing the brand’s
editorial vision to life and growing its footprint further – whether in heels
or flats. Independent Media also announced
the appointment of its editor in chief, Aneez Salie, as the first editorial
representative on its board of directors.  Salie this year also celebrated
his 40th anniversary with the company. “Aneez will be a real asset to the
board given his wealth of experience as a journalist and his solid
understanding of the media business. We are very excited to welcome him on
board,” said Dr Iqbal Survé. Business
moves Classic
1027 FM exits business rescue After
incurring significant debt as a result of financial challenges spanning many
years, Classic 1027 FM was placed in business rescue on 30 September 2019.
Extreme cost-cutting measures were a necessity of the business rescue process,
as overheads were crippling the struggling business. Unfortunately, this
resulted in a portion of the station’s staff being retrenched. The
station’s rescue came after the business rescue practitioner accepted a bid
from The Professional Consortium.
This bid allows Classic 1027 FM to deal with its creditors and maintain its
going concern status. The Professional Consortium is a group of highly skilled media,
legal, and business management specialists who have a wealth of experience in
commercial radio. Their initial focus is on implementing a strategy to stabilise
operations. The consortium is presently reviewing strategies that will attract
a larger- more diverse- audience with a view to maximising the station’s reach
on FM and digital platforms and gaining advertiser confidence. African
Media Entertainment Limited (AME) will retain a small, non-controlling share in
Classic 1027 FM, alongside its shareholding in Algoa FM and OFM. The
transaction is conditional on regulatory approval from ICASA. WWE and SuperSport expand partnership
in Africa WWE
and SuperSport, Africa’s premier sports broadcaster, have announced a
multi-year extension to continue delivering WWE’s weekly flagship programming
live in more than 50 countries throughout sub-Saharan Africa, while expanding
the partnership to include a dedicated WWE channel on DStv. The
new WWE channel will air Raw, SmackDown and NXT live each week and will feature
premium WWE programming including 205 Live, Ride Along, WWE Chronicle and Table
for 3. “The
fans of the WWE universe asked for it, and we are delighted to deliver,” said
Gideon Khobane, chief executive of SuperSport. “WWE programming has proven to
be compelling content with riveting storylines and insane action, which our
viewers absolutely love. This is a big step and a great start to the new year.” The
24/7 channel launches on DStv channel 128 beginning Wednesday, 1 January 2020
and builds on the success of the WWE pop-up channel that launched this year.
SuperSport channels will continue to air Raw, SmackDown and NXT live each week
and be home to all of WWE’s monthly pay-per-view events. Making
moves Read ‘We Have A Game Changer’ – for FREE When Daily Maverick decided to write a book celebrating its 10-year milestone, it wanted to create something, well, Maverick. In South Africa, books are expensive. In fact, they’re prohibitively expensive to the majority of citizens. Daily Maverick’s content is free for all. “We’ve never erected a paywall because we truly believe that access to information should not be the privilege of the wealthy. In the same vein when we set up our book publishing division, Maverick 451, we decided that we wanted our first book, We Have A Game Changer: A Decade of Daily Maverick to be read as widely as possible. The book publishing game needs to be changed. How books are consumed needs to be changed,” it said. “We believe that if you’re someone who enjoys the feel of holding a book in your hands, you’ll buy the book anyway (and you can do so as We Have A Game Changer is now available in bookstores country wide). But if you’re someone who would love to read our book but finances are currently not stretching that far; then you can read it all here for free.” Covering 10 years of Zuma, the rise of the EFF, Marikana, Madiba and everything in between, We Have A Game Changer is part business cautionary tale, part South African history and all from the perspective of the Daily Maverick journalists and founders who changed the game. SABC tops South African reconciliation barometer The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC)
has been declared as the most trusted public institution in South Africa,
according to the 2019 South African Reconciliation Barometer (SARB) survey conducted
by the Institute for Justice and Reconciliation (IJR). This year, the SABC commanded a 57.7% of the South
African citizens’ confidence in the public service broadcaster. This percentage
indicates an impressive 7% increase compared to the 2017 SARB survey when the
SABC’s lead was 50.7%. The results are not only testament to the SABC’s
accessible, wide-ranging and diverse content but also to its commitment to
providing credible, authentic programming. “We are encouraged to learn that the South African
public continues to have so much confidence in our programming,” said SABC
Group CEO, Madoda Mxakwe. “This trust that
has been bestowed upon the SABC is not taken lightly as we understand the
crucial role we play in society to inform, educate and entertain. We believe
the hard work and dedication which is put forth by our employees to deliver on
the SABC’s mandate is key in how the SABC has continuously maintained the
confidence of the majority of South Africans, even during the trying times the
organisation has faced”. For the Diary ‘How A
Powerful Personal Brand Can Improve Your Bottom Line’ Exclusive Webinar – 19 December
11am Meltwater, a global leader in media
intelligence, has partnered with the marketing executive for The Foschini Group
(TFG), Pride Maunatlala, for a free online webinar that will show you how a
powerful personal brand is critical to the success of businesses today. Whether you are the founder of an early-stage
startup, a marketing professional in the tech sector, or the CEO of a
multinational conglomerate, our personal brand is the one thing that we all
have the opportunity to leverage to make our businesses stand out in today’s
digital age. And so this webinar is all about how having a powerful personal
brand can improve the bottom line of your business. Title: How a
Powerful Personal Brand can Improve Your Bottom Line Speaker: Pride
Maunatlala, Marketing Executive at The Foschini Group Date: Thursday,
19 December 2019 Time: 11:00
a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Cost: Free Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.