The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, accounts and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: African Development Bank’s Fashionomics Africa launches digital marketplace for the continent’s fashion creators The African Development Bank’s flagship initiative, Fashionomics Africa,
has launched the pilot phase of a digital marketplace to help Africa’s fashion
designers, textile and accessories professionals connect with global markets. The launch took place on 25 November at the Global Gender Summit in Kigali,
Rwanda. The Fashionomics Africa digital marketplace website and mobile app,
sponsored by the Fund for African Private Sector Assistance, is the latest innovation from
Fashionomics Africa, a platform enabling African entrepreneurs from the
textile, apparel and accessories industries to create and grow their
businesses, with a focus on opportunities for women and young people. “It is
all really for connecting business to business, businesses to consumers and
ensuring we are putting into place all we need to really transform the clothing
and fashion industries in Africa,” said Dr Jennifer Blanke, the Bank’s vice-president for agriculture, human and
social development. Hub of Africa was one of the exhibitors at the Bank-organised
Fashionomics Africa pop-up market at the Global Gender
Summit. The pop-up market featured 43 regional fashion brands and showcased the
‘Made in Africa’ business case for fine garments. It celebrated the power
of African culture as an economic asset, a driver for growth and regional
integration, as well as a source of jobs for youth and women. Business moves Jawbone Brand Experiences joins Iconic Collective Iconic Collective CEO, Dermot
Latimer, has announced that Jawbone Brand Experiences has joined the group as
the brand activations, event management, experiential marketing, customer
experience, and exhibition management service offering division. “We are proud to welcome Jawbone
Brand Experiences to the Iconic Collective group. Jawbone Brand Experiences are
synonymous with providing flawless and effective on-the-ground delivery for
experiential marketing and events, a service that will benefit our clients. We
are now eight agencies with one voice, operating as a collective of creative
businesses to deliver end-to-end solutions for our clients. Jawbone’s services
will complement our existing shopper marketing, UX, development and
technology, design, experiential, print, digital, creative production, public
relations, and post-production services”, said Latimer. The addition of Jawbone Brand
Experiences to the Iconic Collective will see the group bolster their service
offering to provide an omnichannel, multi-discipline turnkey solution for their
existing and potential clients. Established in 2014, Iconic
Collective has grown rapidly, with a global footprint. Jawbone joins Iconic
Media, Prototyp Works, CMG, Meraki, Real, Metriplex, Torque, and Fableist &
Co. as a division of Iconic Collective. Netcash evolves brand
with Boomtown following management buy out Internet-based payment
facility, Netcash, has appointed Boomtown to develop its corporate identity
following a management buy out (MBO). Established in 2003 by Charles Pittaway and Sven
Woxholt, Netcash was purchased by Sage in 2010 where it became Sage Pay.
Following the MBO, the founders are returning to the Netcash name and require a
new identity as well as a communication and brand strategy. Netcash, has a solid reputation and is a name the
industry trusts, which is why it is returning to its original name. Talking about the design, Boomtown group head,
Jesse Skarkie, said: “The logo colours were inspired by the bright RGB
pixels on a digital screen. Being a digital payment and integration brand, we
thought that the digital world was a relevant representation here.” Boomtown account manager, Anina Pienaar, added, “In
addition to the return to the Netcash name which holds considerable
credibility, there is the introduction of a new strapline to reflect the brand
evolution, Payments. Delivered,” adds Sovereign Foods digital community grows Since Sovereign Foods briefed Boomtown
to handle its social media marketing and content creation in May 2019, the
Eastern-Cape poultry company has seen brand awareness and engagement with the
brand rocket. Experiencing 170% growth on Facebook and 133% on Instagram
to date, Boomtown has brought the Sovereign Foods brand positioning, Valuing
Goodness, to life. The increase stems from engagement with the brand’s growing
community through inspirational and educational content, and relevant
targeting. Talking about the account, Marion Marais, Boomtown
senior social media manager says: “From day one our content has been performing
well, and our target audience is fully engaged with the brand. This first phase
exceeded all goals. Next we’ll be launching a fresh new website, and continue
to drive brand loyalty by digging into the insights we gain daily.” ZASpace Inc launched as first
of its kind industry body to grow geospatial sector When we think of space, we generally think of
SciFi shows such as Star Trek, or humanity’s current plans to send manned
missions to Mars. Most people don’t think about space as a business enabler,
and yet that is exactly what it has become over the years. The convergence of earth observation, space
navigation and positioning, telecommunications and location intelligence is
generating massive opportunities for companies in every sector. Observing the
Earth, location and geospatial intelligence have rapidly gravitated to the core
of digitisation and innovation. However, our space sector remains highly
fragmented, massively under-transformed and sub-optimally skilled and
capacitated. Our levels of country readiness to truly benefit from these
unprecedented growth rates need to be accelerated. The industry fabric required
to facilitate structured investment in geospatial skills development as well as
funding and incubation of geospatial innovation are not mature. That is all set to change with the launch of
ZASpace Inc. Driven by key industry stakeholders with support from the South
African National Space Agency (SANSA), ZASpace is a broad-based industry forum
that has been designed to demystify space for business while developing skills
and funding innovation to propel the growth of the sector across the continent
– across the space value chain from upstream to end users. Making
moves Amarula wins big at the annual World Branding
Awards – again Amarula, the distinctive South African cream
liqueur, has been honoured yet again as a winner at the 2019 World Branding
Awards, with a Brand of the Year title – National tier. Amarula was the only
brand in the Alcoholic Spirits – Cream Liqueur category from South Africa to be
selected for this year’s Awards. This is the third consecutive year that
Amarula has been acknowledged with this accolade, solidifying its reputation as
South Africa’s most awarded liqueur. Speaking on the win, global brand director
Michael Lloyd said that the award speaks to the brand’s consistent commitment
to retaining its authentic African roots while also expanding its global
footprint. “Being honoured with this prestigious award once again cements
Amarula’s status as a truly global brand. Amarula is Africa in a bottle, and
its distinctive Marula taste inspires people to explore the unexpected cultural
diversity and rich natural beauty of this continent.” SABC calls on class of 2019 to use its SABC
Education Matric Results Service SABC Education in partnership with the Department
of Basic Education (DBE) is encouraging all the 2019 Grade 12 learners to
register on the SABC’s 2019 matric results service in order to easily access their
final examination results. All Grade 12 learners are eligible to use this
service from 05 December 2019 until 31 January 2020. The Minister of Basic Education, Ms Angie Motshekga
will announce the National Senior Certificate results on 07 January 2020. The
SABC Education matric results service will release the results to all students
across all provinces who registered on its database on the morning of 08
January 2020. Learners are advised to register on one of SABC
Education matric result mobile services to access their results and should use
their 13 digits ID number and exam number to register on the platform of their
choice to access their results. In 2018, more than +/-400 000 students received
results via the SABC Education SMS and USSD services. Learners are encouraged to register on the following mobile services to receive their 2019 matric results. You will be charged R1-50 per minute.Results will be sent to your phone as soon as they are available Should the learners have queries relating to
registration and use of the SABC Education matric results service, they can
contact our call centre on 011 507 4630, Monday to Friday from 8am to 5pm.
However, on the day of the release, the call centre will operate from 6am to
5pm. For the Diary ABC dates to remember The Audit Bureau of Circulations ABC
will be closing on Friday 13 December and re-opening on Monday 06 January 2020. Below are the deadlines for 2020. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.