With the fluctuating rand and the challenges faced by print media worldwide, it’s clear magazines publishing under licence in South Africa are having a hard time. The recent closure
of Entrepreneur magazine in South Africa highlights key issues faced by
publishers, especially those that bring international media brands into the
local market under licence. The
once popular publication shut down at the end of August after having launched in
April 2006. The closure resulted in about 10 people losing their jobs.
Entrepreneur Media South Africa held the local licence from the US-based
Entrepreneur magazine. The closure was partly due to issues around the cost of
the licence fees from the US parent company amid the weakening in the US
dollar/rand exchange rate. Other factors to weigh on the publication included
increased pressure from advertisers to provide discounted rates and
difficulties in dealing with the onslaught of digital change. “The
revenue model for the magazine no longer worked,” a source close to the former
publication said. In a statement in early October, Enterpreneur Media South Africa said that after initially closing its print division in January 2019, the magazine decided to focus on its digital division. “Unfortunately, the digital division alone proved to be an unviable model for Entrepreneur Media South Africa,” the company said. A
former contributor to the magazine, who wished not to be named, said that she
was “saddened” and “surprised” to hear about the publication’s closure. “The
magazine promoted so many entrepreneurs,” she said. The
shutdown is yet another example of an international publication that set up
locally but ultimately couldn’t be sustained. Others that spring to mind are
Marie Claire and Huffington Post. Britta
Reid, a Johannesburg-based independent media consultant, said that the closure
of several publications produced under international licences was “certainly a
trend”. Reid
says that the wider trend was that many local publications were struggling to
reinvent themselves amid an evolving media ecosystem. A weakening rand exchange
rate was just one of many challenges that local publishers faced, including
declining circulations, cover price declines and declining print advertising
revenue, which was not being offset by an uptick in digital revenue. Stuff
magazine publisher and editor-in-chief, Toby Shapshak, says it is getting
harder to publish profitably in South Africa, especially for foreign-owned
titles that charged fees in US dollars, Euros or British sterling. The
local Stuff magazine is produced under license from a British company. On the other hand, Danielle Weakley, editorial director for the South African editions of both Women’s Health and Men’s Health, says she didn’t believe that there was any trend emerging related to the international licenced publications. “Media
brands under licence should be beholden to the same set of strategic insights
as any local brand; the only real difference is an additional cost of licencing
fees. But if your brand is evolving to meet the needs of the audience and the
ever-changing digital landscape, it shouldn’t make a difference whether you’re
under licence or not,” Weakley says. “Working on a brand like Women’s Health has seen us – in 10 years – go from being a website and a monthly magazine to being a content brand that serves up a monthly magazine, stand-alone bookazines, digital fitness and weight loss pay gates, a website, social media…workout and food videos, a fitness influencer programme and a robust portfolio of ticketed events – like Fit Night Out. And we’re still growing. That’s where the magic is… Invest in diversifying what you have,” she adds. Bringing
an international magazine into South Africa under licence meant buying into a
well-established brand that offered brand awareness, strategic direction, a
flow of ideas and insights from a network of editions worldwide, she added. Reid
says that producing a local edition of a major international title comes with
the assurance that the formula had been successfully developed and tested. “It
might also offer easier access to a pool of international advertisers who have
supported the publication in other countries and are confident that it deserves
a place on their schedules,” she says. Shapshak believes taking out a licence meant you were buying a lot of useful stories and features. However, he warns that the cost of foreign currency licence fees could be prohibitive, especially when the rand fluctuated. Reid believes that the major challenge was to adapt the international formula to the requirements and idiosyncrasies of the local market. “Managing that successfully will be determined by local skill and insight but also by the latitude given within the licence,” she said. Unlike
Weakley, Julia Raphaely, CEO of Associated Media Publishing, which publishes
magazines like Cosmopolitan, thinks there is a trend of local publications
under international licence closing. “The entire publishing model as we know it is in
the midst of huge change, which requires substantial investment in building an
omni-channel ecosystem and therefore is a very risky space for anyone. Added to
that, the international licencing model as it stands rests on a fixed term,
which usually favours the licensor, and built-in guarantees in a foreign
currency… Your hard-working rands will need to absorb a US dollar or Euro
guarantee before anything else gets taken care of.” Reid
recommends that before bringing in an international licence it is vital to
determine whether there is a real need for the publication. “They would also
need to consider whether the title had already travelled a long way down the
road of digital innovation as well as the development of alternative revenue
streams,” she adds. But
despite the closure of Enterpreneur magazine’s local edition, the South African
media and communications sector is still bringing in internationally licenced
products, although perhaps in a different way. This
was evidenced in early October when local communication agency King James
announced that it had concluded a deal with Cedar Communications in the UK to
take over a licencing agreement in southern Africa by acquiring a majority
stake in content marketing agency Cedar South Africa. This move will add content publishing, which is a form of marketing, to King James’ offering. Justin Brown is a freelance journalist. He has over 20 years of journalism experience. He was until recently the business editor at City Press. Prior to joining City Press he worked for The Star’s Business Report for almost 10 years. He holds a four-year Bachelor of Journalism degree from Rhodes University and a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of South Africa. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.