On-air competitions have long been a feature of radio content. But what is the return on investment for stations and advertisers, and is it worth it? Western Cape regional radio station Smile 90.4 FM recently launched a competition with an eye-watering R2 million prize for one listener. Billed as Africa’s biggest on-air giveaway, the station said it was an effort to build listenership, as well live by its brand positioning, which is to keep South Africans in good spirits. For
Smile, the “two million reasons to smile” campaign’s return on investment was
an increased listenership, and opening the competition up countrywide via
listening on its app was the means by which to bring new ears to the station’s
offering. Of
course, attracting new listeners is a vital part of competitions, but keeping
them once the competition is over is the trick. “When
stations develop their own competitions it would be to either drive an increase
in cumulative (cume) audience or extend time spent listening. Audience growth
may spike slightly after a competition, but the trick is to have all the
elements on the station in place before running great competitions.” says
programming manager of East Coast Radio (ECR), Zane Derbyshire. “If
the music, presenters and content are compelling, the increase driven by the
competition is likely to stick a lot more. Because the Broadcast Research
Council’s Radio Audience Measurement (BRC RAM) survey releases are rolled
waves, it is hard to determine if one single competition had a true impact on
audience numbers, as most competitions do not run for six months at a time.” ECR’s head of
promotions, Jonathan Lumley, agrees. “It’s been hard to track in recent years
with the change to BRC RAMS, and not having any longitudinal data to refer back
to has been frustrating. Before, we could compare listenership around a period
of time that a major promotion was running and see the impact on cume and time
spent listening,” he says. “Often
we could see a marked increase in numbers, or not, if nothing had been done,
but a competitor had. So we usually gauge engagement with our entry numbers
now, and have benchmarks around the type of competition that was running, and
based on the mechanic, and entry point we can pretty much work out how many
entries a client should be expecting. And by using those unique numbers and
comparing the entries to our databases we can determine whether it’s made an
impact on listenership.” The
return on investment for brands is a different matter, and depends on the
client’s objectives. Minenhle Dlamini, head of creative and promotions at
Gagasi FM, says some want to drive leads or traffic to a website or a place,
while others want to push sales or grow brand awareness. “You would then
measure the ROI based on whether the objective has been met or not. The
competition mechanics need to speak to the client’s objective,” she adds. That’s
why it is crucial to analyse and question the purpose of the competition from
the client upfront and then deliver on that brief, says Lumley. “We could run a
competition that generates thousands of entries, but few opt-ins for the
client, and consequently fail on their expectations. Generally we measure by looking
at the total number of entries, then measure against the unique entries and any
further op-ins for the client. “If it’s the radio
station’s own competition (not sponsored) we are more inclined to really
measure total entries and how much PR value we got from the promotion.
Competitions are great for creating a launch platform for a new offer or
service from a client and a fun way to engage with an audience. For some of the
bigger promotions we definitely gauge through focus groups and audience recall
from our own research. If it shows up or is highlighted, we then know we hit
the mark,” he reckons. Creative
director at Mediamark, Andrew Campbell, believes social media has added a
powerful element to on-air competitions, and helped increase return on
investment. It plays a “massive role in terms of creating awareness around
competitions”, he says. “If
the message is tailored to the audience without them ever feeling like they’re
reading a post that’s been paid for, it will drive interest and set up
appointment listening for something the sponsor is involved in on-air. It also
gives listeners the chance to interact with their favourite presenters, and by
default, the advertiser associated with a specific competition, in a visually
appealing manner. It’s also a great tool to use as part of a creative solution
for the client where listeners can now see the product or brand and potentially
the presenters interacting with it as well,” he explains. Social
media helps spread the message, says Dlamini. “Competitions help you to stand
out, as opposed to having your message in the spot breaks. Through
competitions, you get presenters to create some great hype around your brand
when they run the competition, and you also get to partner with them (the
presenters) when they do the competition,” she says. “Also, listeners get
involved with the competition when they listen in, try to test themselves or
they listen in to hear if they could have done better. There’s engagement with
your competition on-air, which a normal ad does not afford… social media also
allows for that engagement and opportunity to share.” Advertisers, says
Campbell, are beginning to see the value of doing competitions as part of
content. “Weave a narrative around the competition idea and your listeners are
more inclined to enter or care about who wins, which automatically means
exposure for the sponsor,” he says. As
an example, he refers to a campaign for UCook, a brand that wanted to break into
the KwaZulu-Natal market. “A content-based creative was conceptualised where
listeners could win the chance to cook dinner for their favourite East Coast
Radio presenters. Because UCook provides their customers with exactly the right
quantity of ingredients and easy-to-follow instructions to prepare the meal,
listeners found themselves buying into the notion of removing any potential
stress involved when you have guests over for dinner. It also drove engagement
with the brand as listeners had to download the UCook App to see for themselves
how easy it was to subscribe and to enter.” Lumley
has words of caution. “I think what is important to note is that clients and
ourselves as media regard ourselves in high esteem, and tend to forget that we
are intruding on our audiences in their private space (home, car or office) and
we have to remember that we aren’t the most important thing in their
lives.  We like to think we are, but we
aren’t,” he says. “So sometimes entries to a competition can be lower than expected – when this happens you have to look at the golden triangle of a promotion, these being the timing, the offer (reward) and the ease of taking up that offer. If you can get all three in proportion, you will have a stellar competition that hits the sweet spot with an audience.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.