The new year is in full swing; 2019 means new chances for your company to reach potential customers. Before setting up your next e-mail marketing campaign, here are the biggest trends in B2B e-mail marketing. Mobile Mobile optimisation is one of the biggest developments in online marketing and thus email marketing. The use of responsive design for B2B e-mail marketing has increased substantially according to DDMA research: from 56% in 2015 to 79% in 2017. This will further increase in 2019. So always make sure your email campaigns are optimised for mobile. Automation Automation of email marketing is becoming more and more popular. Automated campaigns are often based on certain triggers like a welcome email, an anniversary email or a reactivation email. The only thing you have to do is set up your campaign once. Because the campaign is triggered by the behaviour of the recipient, the e-mails meet the needs of your potential client. Read more about this in our post about drip marketing. Personalise Personalisation is key and will become even more important in 2019. We have come to demand and expect relevant and personalised content. This varies from personalising an e-mail subject line to segmenting your email contacts. By segmenting your contacts by location, age, job title or gender, you can send more relevant emails and offer a personalised experience. Artificial intelligence Artificial intelligence and specifically machine learning will become more accessible to companies. It allows you to make e-mail marketing smarter and more personalised. Wouldn’t it be great if AI could help you predict which subject lines and call-to-actions recipients are most likely to respond to? Right now AI can help with: Daan Wolff is a data expert at BoldData. This article was originally published as a BoldData blog post. Click here to read the original piece Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za