Operating locally, but thinking globally has always been our intention so the invitation to join the FIPP board was not only an honour but also a necessity. I have been very concerned for a long time that there is no magazine industry body in South Africa, not only to protect but also to grow our industry here. It seems odd that at a time when disruption was at its highest, as industry players, we just sat back and let the conversation around ‘print is dead’ continue unchallenged. I think this has been one of the biggest obstacles to overcome, especially on the ground here. Instead of coming together and presenting a united voice about the way forward, we all continued in our silos. Even once Google and Facebook showed us who they really were, we remained fragmented and dis-unified instead of using our combined muscle and working together as an industry. Read more: Magazine Publishers Association of SA dissolved Read more: Death of MPASA ‘good’ for  the industry FIPP works in exactly the opposite way. It describes itself as “the network for global media” and the board comprises more than 40 members from across the globe. The board members are committed to a common goal: helping FIPP members build market-leading international businesses by identifying and communicating emerging trends, sharing knowledge, improving skills and, crucially, networking with their industry colleagues worldwide. One of the most important benefits of being part of the FIPP board is being able to sit at the table with other publishers and engage, with a consolidated voice, the likes of Facebook and Google, who accounted for 90% of digital advertising growth last year.[1] Even the largest publishers and members of FIPP are insignificant compared to the scale of a Facebook or a Google, but if we come together as an industry we can start to get some of the things we want. There’s a great danger for us as an industry if we present a fragmented voice to those platforms. The FIPP board members have deep knowledge of the industry and its challenges and are open to sharing this knowledge. And they actually make stuff happen. One example is FIPP Insider, a new initiative that aims to deepen engagement with existing member companies and to attract new member companies. It’s free to attend and consists of a single-day event, with around five presentations, finishing with a panel discussion. Presenters would be the young, dynamic FIPP CEO, James Hewes, at least one other international speaker and the rest from the local market. So far, FIPP have hosted seven events in countries as diverse as Finland, Italy and Argentina. In 2019 they hope to bring the format to South Africa too. Peter Houston, a consultant working to help publishers build a sustainable multi-platform future, spoke at FIPP Insider in Helsinki. He says, “Digital media has reached the end of the beginning and is now part of business as usual for many companies. Increasingly, consumers are also understanding the value of our content and are prepared to pay for it, particularly through print or digital subscriptions.” This is backed up by Deloitte’s prediction that by the end of 2020, the proportion of subscription to advertising revenue for publishers will be 50:50 for digital.[2] According to research by FIPP and CeleraOne, as recently as 2012, this split was 10:90. For now, the need to change the perception that we are still magazine and print businesses remains. AMP, for example, is really a multi-channel media business now, with established and recognisable brands that speak across print, digital and live events to significant audiences. It’s a fantastic time to be working in publishing: we have access to real time data, we have the editorial influence, brand authority and far better audience insight to truly serve our audiences better. Main challenges Biggest opportunities  Julia Raphaely (@julia_raphaely ) is CEO and majority shareholder in Associated Media Publishing (AMP) with a demonstrated track record working in the publishing industry in South Africa. Her experience covers a broad spectrum, including business development and strategy, management, marketing, finance, digital media and sales. [1] https://adexchanger.com/online-advertising/digital-ad-market-soars-to-88-billion-facebook-and-google-contribute-90-of-growth/ [2] https://www.fipp.com/news/insightnews/digital-subscription-revenue-displacing-digital-advertising Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za