The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions and winners in the media industry. A Merit Award was won by a South African agency, for Grid Worldwide’s #HopeJoanna campaign, for client First Rand Bank as a social media series under the photography discipline, at the The One Club for Creativity’s global ADC 98th Annual Awards ceremony.  It was also an outstanding night for TBWA agencies and network, as well as for The New York Times’ “The Truth Is Worth It” campaign, at the awards evening. The Black Cube for Best of Show went to Final Cut New York and Furlined Santa Monica with Droga5 New York for “The Truth Is Worth It” on behalf of The New York Times. The stellar work also received Best of Disciplines honors in both Advertising and Motion/Film Craft, as well as three Gold Cubes in Advertising and a Gold and Bronze in Motion/Film Craft. TBWA\Hakuhodo Tokyo won the most ADC Gold Cubes this year with eight, and was named ADC Agency of the Year based upon cumulative scores across all disciplines.  All of the agency’s Gold Cubes were for “Pride Jersey” on behalf of AIG, including three Golds in Product Design, two each in Advertising and Fashion Design, and one in Brand/Communication Design. The work also picked up three Best of Discipline honors, in Brand/Communication Design, Fashion Design and Product Design. TBWA\Media Arts Lab Los Angeles with OMD Worldwide Los Angeles won the second-most ADC Gold Cubes this year with six, all for Apple “Welcome Home” (five in Advertising, one in Motion/Film Craft).  The agency also picked up two Silver, five Bronze and five Merits on the night. TBWA\Chiat\Day New York also had three Best of Discipline wins, including one each in Publication Design and Typography working with Design by Disruption New York and Rebel & Rogue New York for “The Fake News Stand” on behalf of Columbia Journalism Review, and one in Packaging Design with Design by Disruption for Thomson Reuters “Unboxing the Truth”.  The agency won a Gold Cube for each of those entries, as well as five Silver and nine Merits on the night. This year’s top honors, based upon cumulative ADC Cubes and Merits won across all disciplines, are: The full list of winners can be found here. International Out of Home Association FEPE International has announced the winners of its 2019 Awards. The Creative Awards are awarded in two categories: Classic and Digital. The Classic Award went to Mexican beer brand Corona for its UK campaign for World Oceans Day,  a “Wave of Waste” sculpture at London’s Old Street Roundabout (left). Wieden & Kennedy Amsterdam, Vizeum and Posterscope organised a special build on Primesight’s Domination site. The Digital Award was awarded jointly to Clear Channel Sweden for its Stockholm Out of Home Project and the Open University Netherlands for its Platform College tour. Working with Prime Weber Shandwick, Clear Channel’s screens delivered real time messages for Stockholm’s homeless, advising them of their nearest emergency shelters. The Open University ran a rail platform campaign, through agency ZIGT and Exterion Media Netherlands, which was displayed to travellers ten minutes before their train arrived. The FEPE Technical Innovation Award was won by Ocean Outdoor for its campaign Sky Rescue: the Ocean’s biggest threat, which triumphed after Congress delegates viewed presentations by three shortlisted entries and then voted for the winner. Ocean’s DOOH screens encouraged audiences walking past to identify the most menacing danger lurking in the oceans. Tim Bleakley, CEO of Ocean Outdoor, walked away with the FEPE International Leadership Award, while Randy Otto, president of Pattison Outdoor Advertising Inc. was honoured with the Lifetime Achievement Award. The Rising Star Award for Out of Home executives under 30 was given to Victoria Hirst, senior international marketing manager of blowUP media UK. Global communications agency BCW (Burson Cohn & Wolfe) has been shortlisted for five Agencies of the Year (AOTY) SABRE Awards by the Holmes Report. For the 11th consecutive year, BCW Africa is amongst the Africa Consultancies of the Year finalists. BCW Africa won the award in 2009 – the inaugural year of the African award – and in 2015, and twice has seen partners in its Africa network also take the top honours.  BCW Africa is the only agency to have been a finalist every year since the award’s launch. Globally, these honours are considered the ultimate benchmark of PR firm performance and are the result of an exhaustive research process involving more than 200 submissions and face-to-face meetings. The full list of BCW Group AOTY nominations is below: ·         Pan-EMEA Consultancies of the Year – BCW ·         Africa Consultancies of the Year – BCW Africa ·         Mediterranean Consultancies of the Year – BCW Italy ·         UK Consultancies of the Year – BCW UK ·         Middle East Consultancies of the Year – Asda’a BCW ·         Healthcare Consultancies of the Year – GCI Health (BCW Group company) ·         Technology Consultancies of the Year – AxiCom (BCW Group company) The winners will be announced at the SABRE Awards in London on the 22nd May. See the full list of finalists here. The shortlisted finalists have been announced for this year’s WARC Awards. The awards are a search for next-generation marketing effectiveness. “Winning a WARC Award shows that you are developing and mastering new techniques to deliver business results for clients,” says the about section on the awards’ website. It will reward best-in-class social strategy, content strategy, innovation and brand purpose initiatives. The full list of shortlisted campaigns can be found here. The shortlisted finalists have been announced for this year’s Appy Awards. The awards are all about acknowledging creativity and excellence in app design, and this year includes a new category of awards, In-App Campaigns. This group is for advertisers that use apps as a key element of their marketing campaigns. Entrants in these categories will be judged by their creativity and success in leveraging mobile’s unique opportunities. The winners will be announced at the APPY Awards Cocktail Party on 15 May. Click here to see the full list of finalists in all the categories. Now in its fifth year, the Top 100 Young Independents (TYI) is searching for 100 inspiring and aspiring young leaders from across sub-Saharan Africa who are involved in projects that are contributing towards developing their communities against all odds. It is an initiative by the Independent Media Group and offers trailblazers, influencers, disruptors, healers, innovators, entrepreneurs, creatives and social activists the opportunity to showcase their community contributions and efforts towards community development. Nominations for the coveted awards will be considered in five categories, namely: Prizes worth US$18,000.00 will be shared amongst the twenty winners selected for each category, including the runners-up to help support their projects. Nominees vying for the coveted title of The Young Independent should be aged between 18 and 35 years old; be leaders in their respective field and must be citizens of any country in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region. Nominations can be submitted online here and entries close on 14 June 2019. The winners will be announced at a gala event, which will be hosted in Johannesburg, South Africa, on 29 August 2019. The Awards Wrap is published every Tuesday in our newsletter. Please send all awards news to michael@wagthedog.co.za. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za