The SABC is on the road to recovery, despite a financially challenging year, its chairperson, Bongumusa Makhathini, has said. In an interview with Morning Live’s Leanne Manas, he said the fact that the Auditor General had marked its annual report ‘qualified’, up from a ‘disclaimer’ last year, was indicative that its turnaround plan was starting to take effect. With the injection of a
government bailout, which was “imminent”, as the SABC had met all the
conditions imposed by its government shareholders, the broadcaster would be
able to further consolidate its gains, and importantly, pay the R1.6 billion it
owes suppliers, Makhathini said. The SABC tabled its annual
report in Parliament on Monday. It reported a net loss of R482.2 million. While
the amount seems staggering, it was actually better than the R1-billion loss
the previous financial year, the chairperson said. “This is a 35% improvement,”
said Makhathini. The loss comprised, in the main, R400 million on sports
rights, an ongoing issue at the broadcaster, and interest payments that were
the result of “liquidity constraints”. Makhathini said the new
board and management had “managed to cut R1-billion in costs”. This included
reporting on the elections, which in previous years had cost around R80
million, but this year amounted to under R15 million. He said had the broadcaster
received the promised bailout from government, it could have brought down costs
still further as it could have avoided the huge amounts of interest on its
debts. Once the money comes in, the SABC would “do even better”. It would
settle debt, start doing much-needed maintenance, and start looking into
content. Still, the SABC was
lambasted for a 63% increase in fruitless and wasteful expenditure, but
Makhathini said this was not new, but a result of actions in “prior years”. The SABC is still battling
to overcome years of mismanagement endemic during the reign of former COO,
Hlaudi Motsoeneng. It was, for example, trying to claw back R21 million from
Motsoeneng with the help of the Special Investigative Unit (SIU). Motsoeneng, meanwhile,
recently gave evidence at the State Capture Inquiry, and bizarrely, claimed the
broadcaster owed him R16 million for brokering a content deal with MultiChoice
in which the pay TV giant could use its archives. Asked about the impending
rise in TV licence fees, and whether the broadcaster had improved the
collection of this income stream, Makhathini said this was looking “positive”
due to the public seeing it was addressing issues that plagued it for so long,
particularly around governance. He pointed out that 72c a
day was not enough considering the range of radio and TV channels it brought to
the public. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za