Who’s watching the Rugby World Cup – and where? That’s one of the burning questions Leon Louw wants Icasa to answer. The co-founder and executive director of the Free Market Foundation(FMF) hosted a press luncheon this week to highlight the conundrum of who will really pay for ‘free-to-air’ coverage of the games currently lighting up global television if the parastatal’s “heavy-handed and unnecessary” Draft Sport Broadcasting Services Regulations are to be implemented. “We just don’t see how we can be polite
about it,” he quipped. “There was no consultation, no consumer input, and no
understanding of competition and how it works,” adds Louw, whose ire is
directed at several stipulations in the draft, and its broader implications on
sport, viewers, and the broadcast market itself.” The question of MultiChoice’s dominance of sports broadcasting rights, and the SABC’s financial inability to meet public demand for these broadcasts, no doubt led to Icasa’s foray into the market, and its demand for compulsory “full live” coverage of “national sporting events” by free-to-air broadcasters – but this, notes Louw, has been done with little assessment, and even less foresight. That access to sports broadcasts needs to broaden to all is a given, notes Louw. “But how – and what is the data on access? Do we even know the extent to which the poor don’t have access? If you’ve not defined the problem, how do you draft regulation to fix it?” Icasa’s proposal, he says, is riddled with flaws. “Under the pretext of increasing ‘free-to-air’ broadcasting, Icasa proposes the destruction of the rights and interests of sports bodies, participants, broadcasters and, most seriously, consumers. It wants the elimination of freedom of choice and contract, and wants bureaucrats, devoid of relevant qualifications or experience, to decide the minutiae of who may, may not and must broadcast sport.” To be fair, Louw is not alone in his interpretation of Icasa’s dubious
attempt to “reach a wider audience and strike a balance between audience and
revenue”. Even free to air channels such as e.tv and Kwese TV – who is in the
process of being granted a broadcasting licence – have raised concerns about
the cost of acquiring the sports broadcasting rights, the restriction on
advertising and the restriction on ownership of teams by broadcasters. MultiChoice, FIFA, and Rugby World Cup all believe Icasa has neither the power to prohibit exclusive broadcasting rights nor to compel broadcasting – and most stakeholders have pointed to vagaries of definitions and terms that muddies the purpose, intent and impact of the proposed regulations. The difference, says Louw, is that the 42 stakeholders who have entered submissions have been rather polite in doing so, for fear of reprisals. As a non-profit lobbyist FMF – founded 45 years ago to counter apartheid – cannot be “victimised or intimidated,” hence Louw’s unequivocal stance, succinctly summarised in this Business Live article. What happens next? Icasa published the Draft Regulations in the Government Gazette last December, initially setting a 15 March 2019 deadline for written submissions. That deadline has thrice been extended throughout the year, with the final being 4 October. Some 42 submissions have been received, from an array of stakeholders that include e.tv, Kwese TV, M-Net, MultiChoice and local and international sporting bodies ICC, FIFA, the International Olympic Committee and more…all of whom agree, in polite terms, with the FMF. According to Icasa spokesperson Paseka
Maleka: “There is no set date or timeline for an update on proceedings – you
know how these things change – but I can confirm that the committee is
reviewing submissions at the moment.” FMF data scientist and analyst Mpiyakhe
Dhlamini has developed an interactive app
that shows global business models and ownership of sports rights broadcasting  – let’s hope Icasa takes note, and
investigates more fully before taking this proposal further. Read the full Draft Regulations, and
the various submissions by stakeholders here. Thanks to load shedding, this article comes to you from a coffee shop/sports bar showing with a 24-hour tune in to the Rugby World Cup. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za