Improving online review ratings is a strategic necessity for franchises and multi-location brands as more customers engage with them via online listings – and expect a response. Companies that adopt effective online review strategies are reaping the benefits and typically see an increased score of 0.2 out of five stars every six months. Most consumers won’t consider a business with less than four stars and 88% of consumers say online reviews influence their buying decisions. They are eager to leave reviews too – seven out of 10 consumers will leave feedback if asked to and more than 80% of these are positive. It’s one of the reasons a growing number of South African companies, particularly big brands, are formalising their review strategies as consumers flock to sites such as Google, Facebook and TripAdvisor to get recommendations, read reviews and check star ratings. Collecting reviews and feedback at a store level allows brands to identify strengths and weaknesses for each location and can be used to fix operational shortcomings and identify successes. Increasingly, consumers are writing and checking reviews from their phones via these sites. More than 21 million South Africans have smartphones with GPS which allows them to do location-based searches for shops and restaurants – and then review them, even on-site. Social media channels are a relatively inexpensive way for brands to standardise their messaging to their customers and respond to and manage feedback they receive through online reviews. However, these channels need to be carefully managed. It’s no longer enough for organisations to simply have a social media presence – they need to have a strategy for managing and responding to reviews left by customers. These steps can help companies to formalise their review strategies. It’s important to not only respond to reviews but use them as valuable business insights. When capturing these reviews, or using technology to capture them into a single dashboard, it is important that you have the ability to categorise the reviews and customer sentiment topics to understand the strengths and weaknesses of each store and then report on these findings in a simple and visual way. Some technology will create these insights automatically for brands using artificial intelligence. This ensures operational teams can address the areas of improvement or reward the stores which are performing well. Ashleigh Wainstein is director of Martech firm, Social Places. She co-founded the company specialising in location based marketing and reputation management. Wainstein is head of client services and assists clients with implementing comprehensive local strategies. The company works with brands such as Pepkor, McDonalds, Spur Group, Virgin Active, Kauai and Midas. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za