Big data is still all the rage, but data alone is
not particularly useful. Data needs to be organised, analysed, interrogated and
interpreted before it can be used to improve marketing. In 2020 there will be even more emphasis on the insights obtained from big data, and how marketers use these insights to inform decisions, actions and strategy at large. Understanding which metrics matter to your
business is more crucial than ever before. When brands and businesses are
monitoring the metrics that align to their commercial goals, it becomes
significantly easier to gain traction in the digital space and realise
opportunities for growth. Analytics help teams stay focussed, accountable
and objective. There’s no hiding behind the big creative idea, but increasingly
about taking the transparency that data and analytics allow for seriously and
ensuring the creative is always strategically aligned to the business goals. As our appreciation for data grows, so does the
realisation that data is not numbers, graphs and tables, it’s people. Data is
your customer profile, guideline for a dynamic strategy and better ROI. Not a new trend, per se, but hyper
personalisation continues to be a key marketing consideration for all brands.
Hyper personalisation sees the focus moving from the brand itself to placing
the consumer at the centre of the strategy. As it becomes harder to capture your audience’s
attention, the need to personalise is no longer a “nice touch” but central to
the success of the campaign. Personalisation is a way to cut through the
clutter, though it is important to always do it with trust and authenticity.
The shareability of the personal experience is equally important, it being the
21-st century word-of-mouth. No surprises here as video has grown
exponentially in recent years and is likely to continue for the next five to 10
years. Video certainly isn’t limited to YouTube and
continues to grow in popularity across channels and platforms. Brands should be
incentivised by the fact that Google is 53 times more likely to place a website
that includes a video on the first page of search results. In 2020 marketers will do well to think about
shoppable video content, 360-degree video content for a more immersive
experience, and live video wherever it makes brand or campaign sense. Marketers want to make sure they’re there for the
micro moments, those seconds when people turn to their phones to satisfy a
need, whether it is to know something, to buy something, to go somewhere or to
do something. People want these momentary needs to be satisfied immediately, which is why marketers need to “be there, be useful, be quick”, as per Google’s description. And it’s not only about being there in the moment, but also about delivering relevant content, making it easy for the customer to make a purchase and to ensure that the moment is a pleasant one. Shaune Jordaan is the co-founder and CEO of Hoorah Digital, an independent digital consultancy that believes in brand results through data. The consultancy focuses on helping internal marketing and digital teams with all things digital, from social media advertising to app design. . Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za