The Media Online’s weekly round up of moves in
media. This week’s
BIG move: NMBT appoints Boomtown to develop tourism
marketing campaigns Following a successful tender process, Boomtown has been appointed by Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism (NMBT) as its tourism marketing partner. Boomtown will work with NMBT to attract and increase the number of visitors to Nelson Mandela Bay by sharing what the city has to offer and to stimulate economic growth by increasing the income generated from visitors. “Tourism is one of the world’s largest industries
and one of the fastest-growing economic sectors,” remarks Boomtown Account
Manager Lisa Snyman. “Tourism for Nelson Mandela Bay is one of the main
instruments for regional development as it stimulates new economic activities,
and we’re proud to be playing our role in the city we call home.” Boomtown has established a good track record of
delivering tangible results within tourism and governmental sectors and is
excited to be working with NMBT. The brief includes the creation and
implementation of a marketing strategy across all promotional platforms,
including media buying, creative and the monitoring and evaluation of its work. People
moves Deliwe Msibi appointed strategic planner at
Mediology Deliwe Msibi (26) has been appointed as strategic planner at media and online marketing agency, Mediology. Joining Mediology from RMS Media where she was a media planner on  accounts such as Standard General Insurance,
Glencore and Galito’s Chicken for the past three years. She will work closely with
media director, Michael Pearce, as well as the agency’s advertising, public
relations and product teams, to develop, plan and implement strategies for
Ascendis, Auto Pedigree, Bridgestone, Coricraft, Extramarks and Voltex among
others. A BA Communications Graduate from North West University, Msibi, who is fluent in four of the country official languages – English, IsiZulu, SeSotho and IsiXhosa and passionate about holistic communication, started her media career as a marketing and sales intern with Mediamark/VOW FM in 2015 before being appointed as sales co-ordinator with the company. Kabelo Lehlongwane joins Riverbed as director of strategy Monalisa Sibongile Zwambila, founder and CEO of
full-service creative agency Riverbed, has announced the appointment of
industry heavyweight, Kabelo Lehlongwane as the
agency’s director of strategy and member of its executive
leadership team. Lehlongwane is renowned for his award-winning
strategies and global experience. Having previously worked for one of the
largest, most prolific through-the-line agency’s
globally, Lehlongwane has firmly established himself in the
industry as a formidable strategist who helps unlock
business growth. Additionally, he prides himself as being
in the business of connecting people with ideas and has a propensity
for fostering meaningful C-suite level relationships with
clients. Riverbed has almost doubled in size with revenues in excess of R100-million following the recent influx of new business including McCain, Sasol and Nedbank. “The need to scale up the business following these new account gains, although in line with our growth strategy, called for me to not only bring in someone to head up strategy but also build a strong leadership team to support this growth,” said Zwambila. Machine MD appointed to Publicis Worldwide team Machine MD and chief creative officer Gareth
McPherson has been appointed to the Publicis Worldwide team as a member of the management and creative
committees. McPherson joins a talented group of leaders selected from within
the sizeable network of creative agencies of the Publicis Groupe, who provide
valuable insight and guidance to the rest of the network. The Publicis Groupe network of agencies and
companies collectively form the world’s third largest communications group. Machine joined the Publicis Groupe in 2014, with McPherson then leading the
creative team as group creative director. He has effectively led the agency creatively since its inception in 2012, guiding it through the ranks,
from initial recognition as AdReview’s Breakthrough Agency of the Year 2013, to
currently ranking in the Top 10 Creative agencies in South Africa, and most
recently being placed in the Top 5 Digital agencies’ rankings in the country.
Over this time, the agency has delivered some of the industry’s best work.
Gareth was appointed MD and Chief Creative Officer in early 2019. Business moves Meltwater sets sail with new Fjord release Media intelligence
company Meltwater has
launched Fjord, a product designed to empower public relations,
marketing and communications teams with an all-in-one product suite that
enables collaboration and comprehensive AI-powered insights. By focusing
on simplicity and efficiency, Meltwater customers will enjoy an upgraded
user-experience, with an intuitive new
design and enhanced self-help options. Projects becomes a centralized workspace within the Meltwater
product, enabling end-to-end campaign execution from media outreach to
post-campaign analysis, and the industry-leading Meltwater Mobile app, available on iOS and Android, which now
allows for instant notification and ad-hoc searching and analysis, as well as
the ability to access all of the content from saved searches and tags in the
desktop application. House & Leisure increases sales by 28%
after rebrand Over the last quarter House & Leisure
magazine sales have increased by 28%. Associated Media Publishing believes this
is due to a redesign of the magazine, saying “responsible and well-considered
design principles can boost brand value and deliver meaning, relevance and impact”. The magazine’s print circulation fell 13.7%
in Q4 of 2017 and if the ABC’s were anything to go by, the decline was set to
continue, as is the case for almost all the local consumer magazines. The brand
faced a serious challenge. How could they increase print sales in the
short-term while simultaneously attracting a new digitally savvy consumer and
not alienate their most loyal older readers in the long-term? The team from Associated Media Publishing
approached Mutant with the challenge. Working off an extremely cluttered newsstand, the Mutant
team used design principles specifically to enhance the product. Andrew
Whitehouse, ECD and founder points out “by applying a little neuroscience and
simple design principles, the House & Leisure brand can elevate itself out
of the category with a refreshed look that over time will build brand
recognition and equity that is far more valuable than print sales”. The new magazine hit the shelves in April 2019
and by August 2019 the ABC’s had reported an increase in sales of 28% – one of
only two consumer magazines that stood up to a declining print market. Making
moves The Future of Media Conference is coming back Tiso Blackstar has announced that the Future of
Media Conference, which was last held in 2016, is set to make a comeback and
will take place on 23 July 2020, in Parktown Johannesburg. The Future of Media Conference is directed towards
the media, advertising and marketing sectors – where media platforms provide
the vehicles for brands to reach and engage with increasingly tech-savvy and
discerning audiences. Once again, the changing trends in advertising,
branding, and content will come under the spotlight. Eben Gewers, head of advertising sales, said the
conference comes at a very important time: “Technology is advancing at a rapid
rate and the industry does not always have an opportunity to sit back and take
everything in.  We see the Future of Media Conference as an opportunity to
bring our industry colleagues together under one roof, where we can hear from
experts in their respective fields, debate relevant issues, and leave with a
well-formed view of the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.” Tiso Blackstar Events also hosts the Sunday Times Top Brands Awards, Sunday Times Gen Next Awards, the
South African Radio Awards, Financial
Mail AdForum and the Financial
Mail AdFocus Awards, the AMARA Recruitment Awards, as well as the
recently acquired MOST Awards. Geleza Nathi to provide support through revisions of
matric subjects The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has
announced that SABC Education will be kick-staring the exam season for
matriculants, with the series ‘Geleza Nathi’ which will be providing critical
revisions on subjects. The six-week long series went live on SABC 1 from
Monday, 21 October 2019 until Friday, 29 November 2019 between 5:00am and
6:00am. Subjects covered in the series include Maths, Physical Sciences,
English FAL, Life Sciences, Accounting, Business Studies, Economics, Geography
and History. Head of SABC Education, Danie Swart, said the
initiative was aimed at helping students in matric best prepare for their
year-end exams including providing them with easy access to matric results. We
urge learners to take full advantage of all these resources.” Help for matriculants will extend beyond broadcast
hours, as they will be able spend an hour each weekday evening asking the
experts, those difficult to answer and last-minute questions via the Geleza
Nathi Facebook page. For the Diary Connect and learn at the intersection of
tech, creativity and mindset The Catalyst
Africa networking event aims to accelerate attendees knowledge about
technology, creativity and mind-set. Catalyst Africa will be presented by 30+
leaders across 5+ venues from 30-31 October 2019 at the UCT GSB Conference
Centre. The event is
aligned with the South African National Government ambitions to embrace the
Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR,) and is arguably the first initiative that
will contribute to these ambitions by providing South Africans with access to
the necessary skills required to harness the opportunities offered by the
digital revolution. Commenting on this Monica Rorvik, head of
film and media promotion at Wesgro said: “We are proud to be part of Catalyst
Africa as it aims to help attendees embrace the Fourth Industrial Revolution
and will drive the knowledge economy in both the creative and tech industries.
We will continue to support such projects as the film and media industry is key
to economic growth and job creation and is supported by the City of Cape Town
and the  Western Cape Government. We are excited to see what the event has
to offer!” DISCOP
JOBURG Presents The Africa Channel Masterclasses Africa’s largest and most respected
content focused event, DISCOP JOBURG,
taking place from 20 to 22 November, will put a strong emphasis on African
television projects in development, partnerships with South Africa, and the
booming animation sector A newly revamped and focused DISCOP JOBURG programme will see a
scope that goes beyond content buying and selling and that will include a
strong sidebar program of panel discussions and master classes. This DISCOPRO program will see more than 50 speakers, including many
intrepid disrupters, on stage for panel discussions headlined by a series of
masterclasses and a panel discussion led by experts from around the world
sponsored by The Africa Channel. These sessions will specifically
address how independent producers can export their content and best adapt to
the fast-paced world of multicultural television. Four sessions will provide a
rapid course of study on what makes a project aimed at multicultural audiences
actually sell in today’s challenging environment. The DISCOPRO speaker line-up includes experts from broadcasters from across Africa such as Ethiopia’s Kana TV, the SABC, Royal Media from Kenya, and others.  International companies such as -Côte Ouest, Warner Media, Turner Africa and Fox studios will also be represented in the DISCOPRO line-up. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.