Some six years ago, Capetonian Alexandrnya Audagnotti decided that she wanted to do something more meaningful with her life; to help make a difference in the world. The events planner
resigned from her job, and with her partner’s help, started small around
Heritage Day in 2013. “A humble beginning where friends would get together to
do soup kitchens or plant gardens,” says
Alex. Numerous sacrifices, attempted hijackings and long hours
later, Alex realised her dream. Call 2 Care was born. Today, the fully-fledged
and self-sustaining non-profit organisation leads a bold initiative called the iGardi Project, which, through volunteer work
from companies and sponsors, teaches impoverished communities to build and grow
their own vegetable gardens. The iGardi Project is
bearing fruit (ahem) in various parts of Cape Town each month. In Gugulethu,
for example, a group of elderly women recently harvested and sold
their own spinach. And at Charleston Hill Secondary School in Paarl, pupils have been taught how to construct plant
boxes and dig compost heaps, all in the name of local sustainable development. Earlier this year,
President Cyril Ramphosa promised in his State of the Nation Address to eradicate child hunger in the next decade.
Call 2 Care is leading this charge, but its story isn’t making news headlines.
Why is that? The odds Call 2 Care’s story may
not grab the coverage it deserves, perhaps because it falls under the broad
category of journalism called development
reporting. In his foreword for this African reporters’ handbook, Joseph
Warungu writes that; “development journalism has often been labelled as boring,
too positive and abstract, far removed from the popular journalistic mantra
(that) ‘if it bleeds it leads’.” And he’s right. Surely, though, massive
global issues like food security, education, and basic access to services
cannot be ignored and deserve equal reporting? The facts speak for
themselves. The Encyclopedia of Earth estimates that; “in
most African countries, agriculture supports the survival and well-being of up
to 70 per cent of the population. For many, their livelihoods are directly
affected by environmental changes, both sudden and gradual, which impact on
agricultural productivity.” Cape Town is no
exception. The city is recovering from its worst drought in a century (blame
climate change), and parts of the Western Cape still suffer, while
rising food and fuel costs make it more
challenging for the average South African to get by. Local farmers face
unprecedented times, and their ability to bounce back from the drought’s
effects will take time. We need smart farming With the growing odds
stacked against farmers, the government, people like Alex and her humble NGO
Call 2 Care, there is a solution. Researchers believe agroecology is the future of agriculture as we
know it. Agroecology aims to create “stable, sustainable, resilient and
productive farms” without pollution like leached fertilisers, ammonia and
antibiotics, which are “more common in industrial agriculture”. A paper published by the Third World Network
warns that “the global food production system is broken as we are destroying
the very base of agriculture with unsustainable practices.” Very simply put; “industrial farming has replaced many
natural, diversified farming systems” across the globe. Africa, however, happens
to find itself naturally at the forefront of agroecology. Oakland Institute
Researcher, Frederic Mousseau writes that; “millions of African farmers
don’t need to adapt to climate change. They have done that already.” Mousseau’s
found that agroecological practices have empowered Kenya’s 200 000 farmers to
“grow the most food on the least land and with the least water” while halving their
use of fertilizers. Meanwhile, back in Cape
Town, the metro’s “breadbasket” the Philippi Horticultural Area has been a
direct source of employment and food for impoverished communities on the urban
fringe, while fending off threats from developers. The African Centre for
Biosafety points out that while most Philippi farmers
still use chemicals, “there are new groups of farmers that are excited to
implement environmentally sound practices”. Seeds of agroecology have been planted in the Philippi Horticultural Area,
with one farm now “introducing crop rotation to build healthy soils and a
diversity of crops and indigenous plants to support biodiversity”. Call to Care In the meantime, Alex
and her team of passionate volunteers journey into more areas of the Western
Cape. So far, they’ve brought their iGardi Project to 13 communities, planting
some 173 garden boxes. Alex calculates that each vegetable bed can feed up to
five children a day, or “subsidise nutrition for up to 15 children daily.” On agroecology, Alex
says “when finances are limited, it makes sense to grow one’s own food and to
create an income from the surplus. Once equipped with the resources, skills and
know-how, it becomes second nature.” Mr Ramaphosa are you
listening? I think we’ve found the answer. Graeme Raubenheimer is an award-winning journalist and TV news producer for e.tv’s new channel, Open News, in Cape Town. Twitter: @GraemeRauby  Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za