A ‘powerful’
year for Kaya FM is drawing to a close with the announcement of a refreshed
line-up. The station is “committed to reinvention and quality that puts us at
the forefront of radio broadcasting”, it said on announcing the changes. “On the back
of winning Commercial Radio Station of the Year, we had plans around how we
wanted to evolve the brand, and some conversations we wanted to solidify,” said
station manager Greg Moloko. It began with
a new look Kaya Breakfast when Thabiso Sikwane and Jason Goliath joined David
O’Sullivan on weekday mornings from 6am-9am, and an additional hour of Karibu
with Mike Siluma on Thursday evenings between 8pm-11pm. Now the
Gauteng-based ‘home of the Afropolitan’ has reviewed how it rolls out day and
night. New to the
early morning slot, between 5am-6am, Sotho Meyer will spin uplifting spiritual
music. “In a country where thousands of women wake up at the crack of dawn to
prepare themselves and their families for a new day – whether in the suburbs or
the townships – what are the conversations at that time of the morning? Having
done exceptionally well with her weekend show focusing on children’s
activities, Sotho is a wonderful addition to this morning slot,” Moloko says,
adding that the “spiritual vibe was important”. Financial financial
journalist Sumitra Nydoo brings the latest insights in personal finance,
helping listeners lead happier and wealthier lives. Every week on My Money and
Me, Nydoo finds the unique link between money and self-improvement, ensuring
valuable lessons that are accessible to everyone. Tune in every Tuesday between
8pm-9pm. Big Black brings his definitive voice and taste in soul music to the discerning Afropolitan listener looking for nostalgic moments and open to exploring new sounds in Late Nights with Big Black. is the perfect way to wind down to expertly selected music. Late Nights is broadcast Monday to Wednesday from 9pm-midnight.  The Best T in the City is back with a new twist in the form of #PlatinumFridays. Afropolitans can expect Thabo ‘Tbose’ Mokwele  to ring in the weekend with a range of premium sounds, while interviewing interesting thought leaders with a focus on the more light-hearted aspects of life. Tune into #PlatinumFridays from 09h00-12h00.  Sunday afternoons are devoted to What’s Wrong with Groovin’, curated by DJ Kenzhero and Tha_Muzik. The show will “recalibrate and reimagine the history of Africa and her people with creative meaning”. The show will be compiled and presented as an audio documentary. The show, says Moloko, “is a confluence of many impulses and gives us the opportunity to have a musical conversation about the journey of the freedom of Africa. We are very excited about being able to have a platform that draws from the words of Malcolm X, Miriam Makeba, Steve Biko, as well as the thoughts of many young activists of this day”. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za or brattm@tisoblackstar.co.za