Bayer is
putting its global media business up for review, Business Insider (Australia)
has reported. The German chemical and pharmaceutical company has been with
MediaCom in the US since 2011 and operates the account globally. Bayer in the
US brought its media buying in-house in 2017. The
company, which told the WPP owned agency of its decision last week, will
kick-off its search for a new media agency within the next few weeks, the
online business title said. “The breakdown of Bayer
and MediaCom’s relationship also demonstrates how the agency and the
ad-agency-holding-company model continues to face challenges on all sides. It
is another blow to WPP, which just lost a large chunk of its Johnson &
Johnson business,” Business Insider said. For more, check out the story on Business Insider. Manchester City have denied an influencer campaign run in its name was approved by the football club. It told PRWeek it was reviewing its relationship with the agency responsible. Sister
publication CampaignLive.co.uk reported
the club was looking for influencers to “attract
new fans to their home Champions League fixtures against ‘relatively unknown
teams’ amid concerns that not enough ‘core supporters’ will turn up”. Once been made aware of the ad on Tuesday night, Man
City had the ad taken down. CampaignLive has the story here. Puma’s ‘Propah Lady’ campaign in India has challenged stereotypes on what constitutes ‘proper’ behaviour for women. Digitas India has produced a provocative campaign featuring actor Sarah Ali Khan,  transgender model Anjali Lama and sportswomen Dutee Chand and Mary Kom. It has certainly struck a powerful
note, getting 14 million views across Puma’s channels in just five days. “The relatability and adoptability of the
campaign has seen more than 3 500 real stories shared on Instagram organically
with #PropahLady. The campaign continues to change the larger conversation on
what makes women proper, beyond just making a splash with its numbers,”
Digitas India noted. See the full story on Mumbrella Asia and check out the video below. The
Trump administration has told federal agencies not to renew subscriptions for
The New York Times and the Washington Post. The
Wall Street Journal reported that Whitehouse press secretary, Stephanie
Grisham, said the move would be a “significant cost saving” with “hundreds of
thousands of tax dollars” saved. President
Donald Trump, in a recent Fox News interview with Sean Hannity, said the White
House no longer wanted the newspapers. “We’re going to
probably terminate that and the Washington Post. They’re fake,” he said. The Guardian has more. Twitter will lose millions of dollars in revenue this year over “bugs” in its ad-targeting system. Twitter earlier admitted it had shared user data with advertisers without consent. The news saw a 21% decline in its share price. This followed a rise in
its revenues for the third quarter to $824 million, the Financial Times
reported. For more, see the FT story here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.